<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>BharatiyaSamskritiEnglishCommentary-25</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="BharatiyaSamskritiEnglishCommentary-25" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h3 id="_idParaDest-45" class="Subhead2">A. The Rishi and the Shastra – the Linking and the Culture of the Thinking Being of Man</h3>
			<p class="Body-Text">“The most delicate and difficult part of this task of human development is concerned with the thinking being of man, his mind of reason and knowledge. No ancient culture of which we have knowledge, not even the Greek, attached more importance to it or spent more effort on its cultivation. The business of the ancient <a id="_idIndexMarker336"></a>Rishi was not only to know God, but to know the world and life and to reduce it by knowledge to a thing well understood and mastered with which the reason and will of man could deal on assured lines and on a safe basis of wise method and order. The ripe result of this effort was the <a id="_idIndexMarker337"></a>Shastra. When we speak of the Shastra nowadays, we mean too often only the religio-social system of injunctions of the middle age made sacrosanct by their mythical attribution to Manu, Parashara and other Vedic sages. But in older India Shastra meant any systematised teaching and science; each department of life, each line of activity, each subject of knowledge had its science or Shastra. The attempt was to reduce each to a theoretical and practical order founded on detailed observation, just generalisation, full experience, intuitive, logical and experimental analysis and synthesis, in order to enable man to know always with a just fruitfulness for life and to act with the security of right knowledge. The smallest and the greatest things were examined with equal care and attention and each provided with its art and science. The name was given even to the highest spiritual knowledge whenever it was stated not in a mass of intuitive experience and revelatory knowledge as in the Upanishads, but for intellectual comprehension in system and order, – and in that sense the Gita is able to call its profound spiritual teaching the most secret science, guhyatamaṁ śāstram. This high scientific and philosophical spirit was carried by the ancient Indian culture into all its activities. No Indian religion is complete without its outward form of preparatory practice, its supporting philosophy and its Yoga or system of inward practice or art of spiritual living: most even of what seems irrational in it to a first glance, has its philosophical turn and significance. It is this complete understanding and philosophical character which has given religion in India its durable security and immense vitality and enabled it to resist the acid dissolvent power of modern sceptical inquiry; whatever is ill-founded in experience and reason, that power can dissolve, but not the heart and mind of these great teachings. But what we have more especially to observe is that while Indian culture made a distinction between the lower and the higher learning, the knowledge of things and the knowledge of self, it did not put a gulf between them like some religions, but considered the knowledge of the world and things as a preparatory and a leading up to the knowledge of Self and God. All Shastra was put under the sanction of the names of the Rishis, who were in the beginning the teachers not only of spiritual truth and philosophy, – and we may note that all Indian philosophy, even the logic of Nyaya and the atomic theory of the Vaisheshikas, has for its highest crowning note and eventual object spiritual knowledge and liberation, – but of the arts, the social, political and military, the physical and psychic sciences, and every instructor was in his degree respected as a guru or ācārya, a guide or preceptor of the human spirit. All knowledge was woven into one and led up by degrees to the one highest knowledge.”62</p>
			<p class="commentary">‡ After a detailed discussion on the dynamic formulation of Indian religious culture, Sri Aurobindo gives an overview of how it brought about the general culture and refinement of ordinary human life and its powers and linked it successfully to religious development and spiritual evolution. This has been the secret of all the great achievements of this culture. This overview also carries in itself the necessary hints for proper dealing with our own life and its forces. One can see how the present misguided attempts at regulating these forces through a narrow utilitarian approach have given rise to serious problems for the whole of humanity.</p>
			<p class="commentary">Our fundamental problem when we deal with life is that we do not really understand life and its powers, their nature, their action and their interrelationship. Consequently, all our efforts at regulation and cultivation of these prove to be altogether ineffective or, if applied forcibly, may even frustrate their natural development, and engender serious consequences. This culture could so triumphantly link human nature to its lofty ideas due, primarily, to a deep understanding of its construction — for the average human nature is much the same everywhere. Our present humanity, devoid of any such deep understanding, vainly dreams of regulating life by the enactment of ever more elaborate laws and rules and by the construction of novel institutions and increasingly intricate administrative machinery which, in effect — despite the appearances to the contrary — hardly amounts to any real regulation. It is vain to expect that people with a gross utilitarian outlook, devoid of any sense of those deeper forces that govern life, and whose own life is driven by blind egoistic impulses, can frame regulatory laws that are truly effective and applicable to life.</p>
			<p class="commentary">Life, a mobile, progressive and evolving force, differs from the mechanical order of the physical universe with which the reason has been able to deal victoriously only because it is mechanical and runs almost immutably in the groove of fixed cosmic habits. Therefore, in the end, life defeats all the calculations of the idealising reason, undoes its elaborate systems or accepts only the little that it can assimilate to its own need and purpose. It is only in a deeper light of the soul that life can truly and satisfactorily be regulated, because only so can it freely develop and express that deeper truth which it carries within itself. Therefore, Indian culture throughout acted on the firm intuition that the regulation and development of life should always be administered by the supreme authority of the Rishi, who being stationed in the Truth-consciousness and free from the distorting influence of the lower parts of the being, possessed a genuine understanding of life and its powers. It is such Rishis who were called upon to provide society with proper rules, regulations and guiding principles which, even when binding on all, were not of an absolute nature and in practical execution were very much responsive to the formula of <a id="_idIndexMarker338"></a>time, place and person.</p>
			<p class="commentary">The general culture of life concerns itself first with the development of the thinking being, the reflective part of man which observes life and the world and tries to discover the secret laws of things and their workings and build upon them various generalisations, disciplines, sciences, systems, etc. But the peculiarity of the Indian mind lay in its fundamental perception of the spirit as being the true origin and base of everything and, the higher knowledge, the knowledge of the self (<a id="_idIndexMarker339"></a>para vidya) to be the basis of the lower, the knowledge of the world and things (apara vidya), therefore only by going deeper into the soul and looking at the world and things in that light can the thinking being of man truly enter into their secrets. Not content with regarding its highest spiritual experience as a distant ideal that did not impact life or connect with it, the authority of the Rishi and the Shastra served as a powerful link, so that ordinary human life could be uplifted by the deeper truths of the spirit, and thus spirituality may find a secure basis for its manifestation. The ancient Indian Rishi not only possessed a deep knowledge of the spirit’s secrets but had a detailed understanding of all the various aspects of the outer world and life and their practical working as well which brought about detailed Shastras of each department of life, each line of activity and each subject of knowledge that provided the thinking being of man a secure ground for the proper dealing with life. It is this sounding of the highest spiritual heights and the minutest outer details that has given Indian religion that unshakable durability that no acid of sceptical enquiry can dissolve. Explaining in a letter how their own work moved on a secure ground of rigorous testing, Sri Aurobindo wrote, “...we do not found ourselves on faith alone but on a great ground of knowledge which we have been developing and testing all our lives. I think I can say that I have been testing day and night for years upon years more scrupulously than any scientist his theory or his method on the physical plane. That is why I am not alarmed by the aspect of the world around me…” (CWSA 35, 322)</p>
			<p class="commentary">One may wonder if the thinking power of the common people in ancient India was so undeveloped as to turn to the Rishis and the Shastras for guidance even regarding the most ordinary or trivial activities of life. To be able to get a perspective on this, one must not lose sight of this deep truth that the profundities, the potent secrets, the great, hidden, all-determining laws behind the surface of life are exceedingly difficult for us to truly understand. Even for a physically minded person with necessary formal education and background, it should not be difficult to admit to the fact that rather than remaining content at the surface appearances of things it is an ever deeper inquiry by the physical science into the laws of matter that has enabled man to enter the greater secrets of matter and acquire greater control over physical nature. The more one explores matter, the more powerful the control one gets over its outer working. Thus, we understand that it is those more subtle laws and workings of physical nature, unintelligible to the outer senses, that sustain all the outer working. But it is difficult for a sense-bound mentality to perceive that the material world itself has no independent existence and that it is the Soul, the Spirit that is the true basis of this material world as well as that of all the other higher worlds. Therefore, without having some sense of the nature of these worlds one cannot truly know the nature and working of even this physical world. The ancient Indian Rishis not only had a deep understanding of the entire hierarchy of these worlds and their respective manifestations, but even more, the fundamental perception of the true source and cause of all these, — the Will of the Divine Mother. That is why, according to Sri Aurobindo, the business of the ancient Rishi was not only to know God, but to know the world and life and to reduce it by knowledge to a thing well understood and mastered with which the reason and will of man could deal on assured lines and on a safe basis of wise method and order. Considering the example of Sri Aurobindo himself, one can see how from the deepest and the most profound truths of spirituality to all the other possible concerns of individual and collective human existence — life, thought and action — there hardly remains any aspect or subject the truth of which has not been revealed or a conclusive perspective has not been provided by him. It seems, however, that mankind has a long way to go yet, before it can truly benefit by his words. Above all, by the founding of an Ashram in Pondicherry on a purely spiritual basis, he has presented a living example of how life and its concerns can be handled successfully and its issues dealt with perfectly in a community by the sole power of spirituality without taking recourse to a great number of external rules and regulations. </p>
			<p class="commentary">After having provided the thinking being of man with broad outlines and shastras to move on assured lines, the subsequent task of the Rishis was to enable each one to move according to those shastras, and this they effected by the culture and ordering of the ethical nature of man.‡</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
