<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>BharatiyaSamskritiEnglishCommentary-6</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="BharatiyaSamskritiEnglishCommentary-6" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-6" class="Subhead1">II. Indian Culture in the Eyes of a Rationalistic Critic</h2>
			<p class="Body-Text">It is felt that before we carefully consider the accomplishments of the Indian culture it is best to clear out certain misconceptions about it which have settled themselves in the mentality of most educated Indians as a result of hostile and unsparing rationalistic criticism directed at it by the people with an occidental mentality. A negative criticism, when it is honest and free from the tendency of overcharging – the criticisms of Mr. Archer, the rationalistic critic Sri Aurobindo addresses, is not of this kind – is good for the soul and the intellect provided we do not allow it to afflict, beat down or shake us from the upholding centre of our living faith and action, “Most things in our human world are imperfect and it is sometimes well to get a strong view of our imperfections. Or, if nothing else, we can at least learn to appreciate opposite standpoints and get at the source of the opposition; wisdom, insight and sympathy grow by such comparisons.”8</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">“To have put a high value on philosophy, sought by it the highest secrets of our being, turned an effective philosophic thought on life and called in the thinkers, the men of profoundest spiritual experience, highest ideas, largest available knowledge, to govern and shape society, to have subjected creed and dogma to the test of the philosophic mind and founded religious belief upon spiritual intuition, philosophical thought and psychological experience, are signs, not of barbarism or of a mean and ignorant culture, but marks of the highest possible type of civilisation. There is nothing here that would warrant us in abasing ourselves before the idols of the positivist reason or putting the spirit and aim of Indian culture at all lower than the spirit and aim of Western civilisation whether in its high ancient period of rational enlightenment and the speculative idea or in its modern period of broad and minute scientific thought and strong applied knowledge. Different it is, inferior it is not, but has rather a distinct element of superiority in the unique height of its motive and the spiritual nobility of its endeavour.”9</p>
			<p class="commentary">‡ The greatness of a culture depends first on its fundamental conception. Indian culture recognised the Supreme self as the truth of our being and in its light it discovered and expressed the secrets of our being. But its peculiarity lies more in the fact that it could successfully apply that conception to dynamic life also. Any knowledge, thought, or philosophy can be considered to be truly realistic and effective only when it is applied to life and life is shaped by it. Ordinarily, there is such a gulf between a person’s thinking and his action that even if one has very noble thoughts and feelings, in actual active life one mechanically follows the lower impulses in service of the ego. Indian culture called in the most adept for the effective implementation of thought in life. Thus, a system where the society is moulded and governed by spiritually realised people must necessarily be relatively free from those errors and failings that are generally encountered elsewhere. </p>
			<p class="commentary">In Mr. Archer, we find a wholesale and unsparing condemnation and an attempt to unearth and state in the strongest terms all that can be said against India and its culture. His attack covers the whole field and thus allows us to see in a glance the entire antagonist case against Indian culture. Evidently, the eye of such a critic turns, not to the millenniums of culture and greatness of Indian civilisation but to the apparent ignorance and weakness of a few centuries. ‡</p>
			<p class="Body-Text"> “In the poverty, confusion and disorganisation of a period of temporary decline, the eye of the hostile witness refuses to see or to recognise the saving soul of good which still keeps this civilisation alive and promises a strong and vivid return to the greatness of its permanent ideal. Its obstinate elastic force of rebound, its old measureless adaptability are again at work; it is no longer even solely on the defence, but boldly aggressive. Not survival alone, but victory and conquest are the promise of its future. </p>
			<p class="Body-Text">But our critic does not merely deny the lofty aim and greatness of spirit of Indian civilisation, which stand too high to be vulnerable to an assault of this ignorant and prejudiced character. He questions its leading ideas, denies its practical life-value, disparages its fruits, efficacy, character.”10</p>
			<p class="commentary">‡ While criticizing the Indian culture for poverty, for want of life-values, and so on, the critic forgets that it is his own barbaric civilization that has been, to a great extent, responsible for this destitute condition. The whole of human history testifies how wherever the European invaders have gone, they have always carried out indiscriminate massacres, bloodshed, inhuman atrocities on the people and destroyed the culture there. In this context, Swami <a id="_idIndexMarker094"></a>Vivekananda said, “<a id="_idIndexMarker095"></a>British rule in modern India has only one redeeming feature, though unconscious; it has brought India out once more on the stage of the world; it has forced upon it the contact of the outside world. If it had been done with an eye to the good of the people concerned, as circumstances favoured Japan with, the results could have been more wonderful for India. No good can be done when the main idea is blood-sucking. On the whole the old regime was better for the people, as it did not take away everything they had, and there was some justice, some liberty.</p>
			<p class="commentary">A few hundred, modernised, half-educated, and denationalised men are all the show of modern English India – nothing else. The Hindus were 600 million in number according to Ferishta, the Mohammedan historian, in the 12th century – now less than 200 million.</p>
			<p class="commentary">In spite of the centuries of anarchy that reigned during the struggles of the English to conquer, the terrible massacre the English perpetrated in 1857 and 1858, and the still more terrible famines that have become the inevitable consequence of British rule (there never is a famine in a native state) and that take off millions, there has been a good increase of population, but not yet what it was when the country was entirely independent – that is, before the Mohammedan rule. Indian labour and produce can support five times as many people as there are now in India with comfort, if the whole thing is not taken off from them.” (CWSV 8, 475-76) But it crosses all limits of indecency when even after inflicting such inhuman atrocities the tyrant has the audacity to criticise and ridicule this culture for that which they themselves are responsible for. Being deeply troubled by this fact, Swami <a id="_idIndexMarker096"></a>Vivekananda said this in one of his lectures, on the work of <a id="_idIndexMarker097"></a>Christian missionaries : “..whenever your ministers criticise us, let them remember this: If all India stands up and takes all the mud that is at the bottom of the <a id="_idIndexMarker098"></a>Indian Ocean and throws it up against the Western countries, it will not be doing an infinitesimal part of that which you are doing to us. And what for? Did we ever send one missionary to convert anybody in the world? We say to you, “Welcome to your religion, but allow me to have mine.”(CWSV 8: 212-13) ‡</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
