<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>BharatiyaSamskritiEnglishCommentary-1</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="BharatiyaSamskritiEnglishCommentary-1" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div id="_idContainer002" class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h1 id="_idParaDest-1" class="Headline">Preface</h1>
			<p class="Footnote">India is the only country in the world that has been, since the beginning of time, fully conscious of and faithful to its very lofty spiritual goal. Indian civilization has not only been a great cultural system which has had tremendous achievements in every field of human endeavor and thought, but has been an immense religious effort of the human spirit which has nurtured the Sanatana Dharma, a perfect way to move towards and realise this noble spiritual goal in the fastest and most integral way possible both for the individual and the collectivity.</p>
			<p class="Footnote">At present, India seems to be going through a period where every aspect and value of its life seems to be more and more influenced by the Western utilitarian spirit and the following of an alien way. This has created problems, and the current attempts at solving these under the same spirit in an unthinking duplication of the Western ways seem to be a huge mistake. Not by following an alien law, but only by going within, can we find again our true life-giving sources and our forgotten Atma-Shakti. That is why, in the present time, the most important task before India – which being accomplished most of her current problems and difficulties will automatically dissolve – is to become conscious of the profound truth hidden at the root of her great culture, its glorious past and its supreme achievements. To build a greater future, we have to know our great past and making it the basis, move forward.</p>
			<p class="Footnote">This book has brought together Sri Aurobindo’s words on Indian culture and Dharma and the Essential Spirit behind it which have then been conscientiously interpreted. The purpose of this interpretation has been to elucidate those profound thoughts of Sri Aurobindo which alone can tell us the profound and true reasons behind the various outer expressions that our culture had used in the past and for the ups and downs it has undergone in this effort of self-expression. It is only by so knowing – and this cannot be done on the surface but only by sympathetically entering into its fundamental spirit – that we can understand the profounder truths hidden behind the outer forms of this culture and their necessity in their own time (when they were in vogue) – something, naturally, beyond the reach of the modern surface materialistic consciousness – and adopt a more balanced and more just attitude in this matter. </p>
			<p class="Footnote">The various informal talks and discussions between me and various sadhaks of the Sri Aurobindo Divine Life Ashram while reading our own publication ‘The Greatness of India and Its Culture’(2015) form the basis of this book. Pankaj Bagaria has not only painstakingly transcribed and edited these talks, but has diligently completed the innumerable tasks that go towards publishing such a book. All quotations from Sri Aurobindo and the Mother have been put in quotation marks. The commentary has been put in between (‡ ‡) marks to distinguish it from the original.</p>
			<p class="Footnote">We hope that this book, dedicated to the work of Sri Aurobindo and the Mother on this Earth will be such a beacon of light in whose presence many moved by their self-nature and aligning their hearts and minds to it will resolve to dedicate themselves to working for the renaissance of India and its destined role in the world.</p>
			<p class="Footnote">&#9;&#9;&#9;&#9;&#9;</p>
			<p class="Footnote">– Chandra Prakash</p>
		</div>
		<div class="_idGenObjectLayout-1">
			<div id="_idContainer003" epub:type="toc">
			</div>
		</div>
		<div id="_idContainer004" class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<p class="Footnote">Dedicated to the work of </p>
			<p class="Footnote">Sri Aurobindo and the Mother </p>
			<p class="Footnote">on this Earth</p>
		</div>
		<div class="_idGenObjectLayout-1">
			<div id="_idContainer005">
			</div>
		</div>
		<div class="_idGenObjectLayout-1">
			<div id="_idContainer006">
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
