<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>BharatiyaSamskritiEnglishCommentary-44</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="BharatiyaSamskritiEnglishCommentary-44" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-64" class="Subhead1">I. The Legend of India’s Political Incompetence</h2>
			<p class="Body-Text">“..there are many who would admit the greatness of the achievement of India in the things of the mind and the spirit, but would still point out that she has failed in life, her culture has not resulted in a strong, successful or progressive organisation of life such as Europe shows to us, and that in the end at least the highest part of her mind turned away from life to asceticism and an inactive and world-shunning pursuit by the individual of his personal spiritual salvation. Or at most she has come only to a certain point and then there has been an arrest and decadence….</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">The ideals that governed the spirit and body of Indian society were of the highest kind, its social order secured an inexpugnable basic stability, the strong life force that worked in it was creative of an extraordinary energy, richness and interest, and the life organised remarkable in its opulence, variety in unity, beauty, productiveness, movement. All the records of Indian history, art and literature bear evidence to a cultural life of this character and even in decline and dissolution there survives some stamp of it to remind however faintly and distantly of the past greatness. To what then does the charge brought against Indian culture as an agent of the life power amount and what is its justification? In its exaggerated form it is founded upon the characteristics of the decline and dissolution, the features of the decadence read backward into the time of greatness, and it amounts to this that India has always shown an incompetence for any free or sound political organisation and has been constantly a divided and for the most part of her long history a subject nation, that her economic system whatever its bygone merits, if it had any, remained an inelastic and static order that led in modern conditions to poverty and failure and her society an unprogressive hierarchy, caste-ridden, full of semi-barbaric abuses, only fit to be thrown on the scrap-heap among the broken rubbish of the past and replaced by the freedom, soundness and perfection or at least the progressive perfectibility of the European social order. It is necessary to reestablish the real facts and their meaning and afterwards it will be time to pass judgment on the political, the economic and the social aspects of Indian culture.</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">The legend of Indian political incompetence has arisen from a false view of the historical development and an insufficient knowledge of the ancient past of the country. It has long been currently supposed that she passed at once from the freer type of the primitive Aryan or Vedic social and political organisation to a system socially marked by the despotism of the Brahmin theocracy and politically by an absolute monarchy of the oriental, by which is meant the Western Asiatic, type and has remained fixed in these two things for ever after. That summary reading of Indian history has been destroyed by a more careful and enlightened scholarship and the facts are of a quite different nature. It is true that India never evolved either the scrambling and burdensome industrialism or the parliamentary organisation of freedom and self-styled democracy characteristic of the bourgeois or Vaishya period of the cycle of European progress. But the time is passing when the uncritical praise of these things as the ideal state and the last word of social and political progress was fashionable, their defects are now visible and the greatness of an oriental civilisation need not be judged by the standard of these Western developments. Indian scholars have attempted to read the modern ideas and types of democracy and even a parliamentary system into the past of India, but this seems to me an ill-judged endeavour. There was a strong democratic element*<span id="footnote-015-backlink"><a class="_idFootnoteLink _idGenColorInherit" href="BharatiyaSamskritiEnglishCommentary-44.xhtml#footnote-015">[1]</a></span>, if we must use the Western terms, in Indian polity and even institutions that present a certain analogy to the parliamentary form, but in reality these features were of India’s own kind and not at all the same thing as modern parliaments and modern democracy. And so considered they are a much more remarkable evidence of the political capacity of the Indian people in their living adaptation to the ensemble of the social mind and body of the nation than when we judge them by the very different standard of Western society…”2</p>
			<p class="commentary">‡ Wherever Indian culture is discussed, more and more people are coming to acknowledge India’s great contributions in the field of the mind and the spirit, but still, we find the misconception common that, despite her spiritual achievements, she failed in her organising of life, in political acumen and consequently, had to endure constant attacks by foreign invaders and a long period of foreign domination. While India’s so-called political incompetency has been used by her antagonists as the source of criticism, of attempts by critics to prove her incapacity, of derision, even her sympathisers, in the absence of any clarity on the subject, admit her ineptness in politics. This misconception and ambiguity has arisen because, firstly, Indian culture regarded the political aspect, like all other aspects of life, as only a means for realising the Spirit and manifesting it and she created forms and institutions solely from this point of view. It follows that one can neither understand her by surface appearances nor judge her according to surface standards. Even if some of her historical forms or institutions seem similar to modern ones, we will find that substantially they are different, because the Indian spirit perceives things in a special way. This is one underlying reason for misconception. The second reason Indian culture has been deemed incompetent is that, ignoring the long millenniums of ascendancy and greatness, her short history of decline and degradation has been underscored and given central importance. If we look deeper, in the light of Sri Aurobindo (as we have seen earlier), we find that what is ordinarily called a decline of the culture is nothing but a consistent and essential movement of the Spirit towards the most material parts of its being. Sri Aurobindo gives us such a profound and comprehensive perspective for examining Indian polity as cannot be found elsewhere, and, as a result, not only are the misconceptions about Indian political incompetence dispelled but we see that as in other aspects of life, her achievements and ability in the political arena too are incomparable. ‡</p>
			<hr class="HorizontalRule-1" />
			<div class="_idFootnotes">
				<div id="footnote-015" class="_idFootnote" epub:type="footnote">
					<p class="Footnote"><a class="_idFootnoteAnchor _idGenColorInherit" href="BharatiyaSamskritiEnglishCommentary-44.xhtml#footnote-015-backlink">[1]</a> “The principle of popular rule is the possession of the reins of government by the mass of the people, but by the possession is not intended necessarily the actual exercise of administration. When the people are able to approve or to disapprove of any action of the Government with the certainty that such approval or disapproval will be absolutely effective, the spirit of democracy is present even if the body is not evolved. India in her ancient polity possessed this spirit of democracy.”1</p>
				</div>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
