<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>BharatiyaSamskritiEnglishCommentary-41</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="BharatiyaSamskritiEnglishCommentary-41" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h3 id="_idParaDest-61" class="Subhead2">C. The <a id="_idIndexMarker366"></a>Three Gunas and the Development of Sattva</h3>
			<p class="Body-Text">“This view of the human soul was not the whole of the knowledge on which ancient Hinduism based its educational discipline. In addition it had the view that all knowledge is within and has to be evoked by education rather than instilled from outside. The constitution of man consists of three principles of nature <a id="_idIndexMarker367"></a>sattva, rajas and tamas, the comprehensive, active and passive elements of universal action, which, in one of their thousand fold aspects, manifest as knowledge, passion and ignorance. Tamas is a constitutional dullness or passivity which obscures the knowledge within and creates ignorance, mental inertia, slowness, forgetfulness, disinclination to study, inability to grasp and distinguish. Rajas is an undisciplined activity which obscures knowledge by passion, attachment, prejudgment, predilection and wrong ideas. Sattva is an illumination which reveals the hidden knowledge and brings it to the surface where the observation can grasp and the memory record it. This conception of the constitution of the knowing faculty made the removal of tamas, the disciplining of rajas and the awakening of sattva the main problem of the teacher. He had to train the student to be receptive of illumination from within. The disciplining of rajas was effected by a strict moral discipline which induced a calm, clear, receptive state of mind free from intellectual self-will and pride and the obscuration of passion, – the famous discipline of the brahmacārin which was the foundation of Aryan culture and Aryan morals; and the interference of wrong ideas was sought to be removed by strict mental submission to the teacher during the receptive period, when the body of ascertained knowledge or right ideas already in man’s possession was explained to him and committed to memory. The removal of tamas was effected by the discipline of moral purity, which awakened the energy of tejas and electricity in the system and by the power of tapasyā trained it to be a reservoir of mental force and clarity. The awakening of illumination was actively effected by the triple method of repetition, meditation and discussion. Āvṛtti or repetition was meant to fill the recording part of the mind with the śabda or word, so that the artha or meaning might of itself rise from within. Needless to say, a mechanical repetition was not likely to produce this effect. There must be that clear still receptivity and that waiting upon the word or thing with the contemplative part of the mind which is what the ancient Indians meant by <a id="_idIndexMarker368"></a>dhyāna or meditation. All of us have felt, when studying a language, difficulties which seemed insoluble while grappling with a text, suddenly melt away and a clear understanding arise without assistance from book or teacher after putting away the book from our mind for a brief period. Many of us have experienced also, the strangeness of taking up a language or subject, after a brief discontinuance, to find that we understand it much better than when we took it up, know the meanings of words we had never met with before and can explain sentences which, before we discontinued the study, would have baffled our understanding. This is because the jñātā or knower within has had his attention called to the subject and has been busy in the interval drawing upon the source of knowledge within in connection with it. This experience is only possible to those whose sattwic or illuminative element has been powerfully aroused or consciously or unconsciously trained to action by the habit of intellectual clarity and deep study. The highest reach of the sattwic development is when one can dispense often or habitually with outside aids, the teacher or the text book, grammar and dictionary and learn a subject largely or wholly from within. But this is only possible to the Yogin by a successful prosecution of the discipline of Yoga.”11</p>
			<p class="commentary">‡ This succinct account of the Aryan system of education by Sri Aurobindo not only facilitates our entry into the secrets of those processes that this culture had utilised in the past for the building up of its great superstructure but even more, it provides us with those fundamental secrets of human psychology and education that should be the true basis and guiding principles for any education system. It may also help us to understand the root cause of the inevitable failure of all the various attempts, going on throughout the world, at reforms and innovations in this field due to a lack of this basic understanding of human psychology.</p>
			<p class="commentary">Firstly, what is the rationale behind Brahmacharya, and why was it made the basis of the Aryan system of education? Actually, the idea of Brahmacharya is a fundamental concept with a wider sense than the mere abstinence from any sexual activity, as is usually understood by the term. Fundamentally, Brahmacharya is to thoroughly regulate, cultivate and raise one’s whole being and its conduct in the light of Brahman or Spirit, or to say, to raise up one’s normal nature to the spiritual. Being aware of the hierarchy of worlds and planes the Rishis in this culture had a deep perception of the higher worlds being the true ‘kāraṇa’ or cause of the lower ones and of the lower worlds being the ‘pratiṣṭhā’ or the base or the ground for the expression of the truths of the higher ones. As a tree is involved in its seed, similarly the ‘kāraṇa’ is involved in the ‘pratiṣṭhā’. This is the secret of evolution which explains why we see life evolving out of matter, and mind out of life, for otherwise there would seem to be no justifiable reason for a higher principle evolving out of the lower. As even a physical body, however robust in its constitution, cannot be sustained for any length of time without the informing life, the life (vital) too cannot exist without the informing mind. By the virtue of their deep spiritual intuition, our Rishis knew that it is the Absolute Supreme Divine who being inherent in this world animates it, for otherwise, it could not exist, and therefore, it is only rational that this evolutionary terrestrial manifestation evolves back to its inherent spiritual reality. A conscious ascension to the divine Life is, therefore, man’s real business in the world and the true justification of his existence. The entire education system of the ancient Indian culture can be looked upon as a grand system aimed at preparing the human base (pratiṣṭhā) for the utmost possible realisation of this goal.</p>
			<p class="commentary">The greatest challenge before this system in preparing the base was to counter the persistent tendency of the lower nature to gravitate towards its original inconscient roots that resist any ascension. It is this downward pull that makes the physical nature predominantly tamasic, inert, obscure, ignorant and unwilling to change and the nature of the predominantly rajasic vital recklessly dynamic, so as to counter the dead inertia of the physical and impel it to move. The immiscence of the impurity of these lower members obscures and tarnishes the working of the mind. The mind, being a power higher in scale than the vital and the physical and should ideally be open to higher intuitions, knowledge and discernment and serve as a regulating and guiding authority for the two lower members, is usually their stooge engaged in indiscriminately working to fulfil their petty desires. This all-engrossing preoccupation with these lower gratifications dissipates most of the energy and there is hardly enough left for any higher pursuit in life. The reason for this is, firstly, the two main sources from which we derive our energy — food, and even more, physical sensations and vital interchange — are already very crude and indirect ways of receiving the universal energy and what we thus receive is very meagre in quantity and of a very mixed and impure nature in quality. Secondly, even what we receive through these sources is soon dissipated and lost due to the insufficient holding capacity — a lack of Brahmacharya — for there are blind instincts, egoistic demands, vital insistences, hedonistic tendencies, lusts, cravings, fears, passions and a numberless host of other things that act as so many drains that flush away the energy. A part of our energy is spent in the sustenance and smooth functioning of our material existence, but most of it goes in the satisfaction of these blind instincts and passions. The more one becomes conscious of the working of one’s being the more one is able to discern how these obscure movements tend to obscure and distort all our thoughts and actions.</p>
			<p class="commentary">It is a common experience of all those who have set themselves for sincere pursuance of some higher aim in their life that the least indulgence in any lower impulse takes away, to a greater or lesser extent, their energy and lowers their consciousness. Any such act prevents the consciousness from rising upwards and throws cold water on one’s efforts. This is why, if one is in a state where one is taken over by the mechanical lower nature and wastes one’s energies in petty and low occupations, in the gratification of one’s animal propensities, one is deprived of the uplifting action of the more refined and higher sources of energies. A lower working of energies renders practically impossible the action of such virtues as loyalty, obedience, courage, gratitude, service, and so on, that make up man’s true manhood. This explains why in a culture focused entirely on the satisfaction of its lower instincts and its entire system geared towards providing each individual and the collectivity the utmost chance of fulfilling their desires, there is hardly any room for the action of the higher parts of the being and any possibility of some diviner manifestation. In such an outlook on life, even if we come across some strict disciplining and arduous regulation of physical and even vital tendencies, that must not be in any way confused with Brahmacharya, for all such arduousness is completely in service of some subtle or magnified forms of those egoistic satisfactions, for, essentially the whole consciousness and its energies are still entirely concentrated on the gratification of the lower self only. Therefore, in view of the greatness of its aim it was indispensable for Indian culture to work on both ends, that is, on the one hand, put a check on the impurities coming through our usual sources of energy and avoid, as much as possible, any spillage and waste, and on the other, refine the sources themselves and open progressively to higher and more subtle sources of energy. When one is siddha or perfected in the practice of Brahmacharya not only does one learn to draw one’s energy more from the subtle universal and spiritual sources — which can truly come in an uninterrupted flow only when there is not the risk of any serious leakage or mixture from below — but, at the same time, the adhara itself is trained to bear an increasing inrush and play of the energy. Just as dammed water can be utilised to electrify a whole continent or be channelised to irrigate a large area, similarly it was the immense storage of energy that provided the necessary power for the greatest achievements of Indian culture. But unlike the water in the reservoir, the retas jala not only gains in volume but becomes progressively refined, sublimated and transformed into more potent forms — tapas, tejas, vidyut and ojas. This process fills our whole being with superior energy for the works of the body, heart, mind and spirit.</p>
			<p class="commentary">In the light of the above discussion, one can see how the present approach to education is diametrically opposite to that of the ancient Indian system. The sole aim of the present education, due to a materialistic outlook, is to equip the individual for a more and more efficient arrangement of the satisfactions of his lower physical and vital being and make the best he can of the ephemeral terrestrial existence. Instead of helping in curbing the lawless lower tendencies in man, which should be the primary aim of any education system, it, on the contrary, inflates them into despotic and exacting tyrants, in following whose dictates one ends up exhausting all one’s energies. In such a low state of energy in education, even the ordinary activity and functioning of the mind become too cumbersome for the child, not to mention the working of those more subtle and powerful intellectual, psychological and inner faculties. For example, even to be able to focus his attention on the subject of study and deeply reflect on it, grasp and record the meaning in his memory becomes difficult for a child. But instead of addressing the root of the problem, the whole effort in the field of education around the world is to make the academic studies more and more interesting and enjoyable for the student so that he may somehow take interest in studies and focus his attention. But to teach the children to take interest in whatever they are doing is not the same thing as interesting the students. This shortsighted approach has serious consequences on the child’s psychology as he is then habitually inclined for the rest of his life to choose always what seems to him to be more interesting, pleasurable, comfortable or, at least, the least troublesome, while ideally, he should be capable of rising above his preferences and do with utmost interest and concentration whatever he sees as the right thing to be done. Apart from this widespread attempt to make things interesting, there is yet another all-pervasive view or concept in education which has far more serious and disastrous consequences. This view holds that the sole aim of education is to prepare a man to succeed in life and society, and success for it means amassing more and more of those means — money and position and prestige being the most prominent among them — that may help the most in the fulfilment of the physical and vital propensities. The importance of these means is presented in such exaggerated terms that it seems as if human life would not even be possible without them. To dream of beauty, greatness and perfection, to aspire for some deeper and higher values in life, to strive for self-transcendence, all this seems to this narrow outlook very utopian and impractical. Being somewhat dissatisfied with this scenario, there have been independent attempts at conducting education by some moral principles and high ideals. Some of them have even gone so far as to try to reproduce the outer details of the old gurukul system of India so as to return to the ancient Indian system of education. But lacking any profound understanding of the fundamentals of education and human psychology, and being under the sway of the all-pervasive influence of the utilitarian spirit, all such attempts have as yet been found to be mostly, if not completely, ineffective in practice.</p>
			<p class="commentary">When one reflects on this cryptic statement of Sri Aurobindo on education, that ‘An education that confines itself to imparting knowledge, is no education’, one cannot but wonder as to what else or what more it is that would be expected of education, for the commonly accepted higher aim of education is the acquisition of knowledge. First of all, merely to have supplied the student with a large or well-selected mass of information on the various subjects which comprise the best part of human culture at the time cannot in itself be considered education. Summarising the whole approach of our present education through an apt simile, Sri Aurobindo writes at one place, that, “It would hardly be a good technical education for a carpenter to be taught how to fell trees so as to provide himself with wood &amp; never to learn how to prepare tables, chairs &amp; cabinets or even what tools were necessary for his craft. Yet this is precisely what our system of education does….the student who goes forth thus equipped, may become a great timber-merchant but unless he is an exceptional genius he will never be even a moderate carpenter….To give the student knowledge is necessary, but it is still more necessary to build up in him the power of using his knowledge.” (CWSA 1: 359) Therefore, it is far more important to cultivate the power to place that information, without being overwhelmed or bound by it, in a proper perspective and arrive at some conclusion from it. Without developed mental faculties mere information in itself can have no more value than the description of the elephant made by the blind inquirers. The development of various faculties such as memory, judgment, imagination, perception, visualisation and reasoning are needed to build the edifice of thought and knowledge for the knower. If we ponder over these faculties we can see how the complete action of any of these involves the action of others and the action of one affects the functioning of the others. Also, with more and more intellectual, psychological, subjective and inner development, the nature of the working of these faculties too gains in complexity, refinement and accuracy which should be evident enough by comparing their action in a highly cultivated and cultured person to that in an uncultured brute.</p>
			<p class="commentary">But there arises a fundamental question: can even the highest possible development of these or even various other such powers and faculties, however essential they may seem for human life and action, be the sole aim of education? Just as mere information has no meaning without the utilising intellectual capacity, similarly, not only do all these powers and faculties have no use in themselves without a developed consciousness that can put them in right order and utilise them for a proper end, they may, and mostly do, even prove to be serious obstacles in any higher pursuit when pursued for their own sake without the true consciousness. As it is, it is almost impossible for the little human ego to be able to maintain its balance and not get puffed up even by small successes, by the acquisition of wealth, position, or a host of other such things, which is why most spiritual practices lay stress on keeping a safe distance and abstaining from any indulgence in these things. Thus, the more subtle powers and faculties — much more potent than the ordinary acquisitions — that spontaneously develop by the practice of Brahmacharya demand a far greater consciousness that can, without being overwhelmed by these powers, securely make proper use of them under the guidance of some deeper truth. The extraordinary powers and capacities that are generated by the storage of energy can never be the sole object of education, which should be evident enough by closely examining the Asuric characters such as Ravana and Hiranyakashipu, who are classic examples of the terrible misuse of tremendously developed vital and mental powers.</p>
			<p class="commentary">In a deeper analysis, it is not so much the excellence or proficiency in some field of knowledge or some faculty, that constitutes the true personality of a person but, far more, that psychological development and innate constitution which is spontaneously oriented towards expressing the Divine Being and which guides all one’s thoughts, feelings and actions accordingly. For all the knowledge or the power of a person becomes all the more harmful and destructive if his fundamental orientation is wrong. Therefore, considering the greatness of its task and the prerequisites of the fields of its exploration, Indian culture needed to first ensure a strong and infallible psychological, intellectual, moral and inner base on which it could securely build the edifice of knowledge. Even in ordinary life the integrity, suitability or propriety of a person is taken into consideration before entrusting him some responsibility or when sharing with him some confidential or sensitive information. Those who have some sense of the deeper working of things, should be able to see how any amount of development of intellectual, or, even, of stupendous psychic and occult powers can fail to truly bring about any fundamental change in the narrow egoistic outlook on life and world. In fact, all such solitary development only facilitates the egoistic consciousness by giving more potent means in its hands for the fulfilment of its contemptible aims in an enlarged form.</p>
			<p class="commentary">All this discussion inevitably leads us to the conclusion that the development of a consciousness that is constantly open and responsive to the truth of one’s being and which spontaneously uses all its capacities and powers for the expression of that truth, is far more important than the mere development of any powers or faculties. Once a true orientation, that is a consciousness instinctively turned towards the Divine, which is indeed the very nature of the psychic being, is securely established in the being, then there can be no risk in developing any powers even to their highest limits. If we look at things in a truer way, we can say that it is our deeper self alone that can truly determine the necessary powers or the faculties that it may utilise for its self-expression, and if it so wishes, it may even dispense with all those and create new ones more suited to its purpose. </p>
			<p class="commentary">The greatest challenge before the teacher in the Aryan system of education was the removal of tamasic and the disciplining of the rajasic tendencies in the student that obscure or impede the knowledge, and then the awakening of sattva and the psychic being, to create the most conducive environment for the unfolding of the latent knowledge. Thus, moved by its original spiritual impulse, the whole effort of this culture even in the field of education has been to develop, first and foremost, that inner orientation which is constantly turned towards the Divine. Fundamentally, true motive is far more important and valuable than mere knowledge, until one reaches a stage when there remains no disparity between the two and each becomes an integral part of the other. Then, true knowledge leads to true motive and true motive facilitates entry into true knowledge. This explains why education cannot confine itself to merely imparting knowledge.</p>
			<p class="commentary">This succinct account of the Aryan system of education by Sri Aurobindo helps us enter into the secret of the great achievements of this culture and gives us a clue to the true sense of all the various outer processes, forms and expressions that this culture has used for an effective manifestation of its fundamental objective — the preparation of a sound instrumentation for the manifestation of the Divine.‡</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
