<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>BharatiyaSamskritiEnglishCommentary-22</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="BharatiyaSamskritiEnglishCommentary-22" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h3 id="_idParaDest-31" class="Subhead2">G. The Spirit and Forms of <a id="_idIndexMarker289"></a>Indian Religion and Spiritual Culture</h3>
			<h4 id="_idParaDest-32" class="Subhead3">(i) The <a id="_idIndexMarker290"></a>Vedic and Vedantic Form</h4>
			<p class="Body-Text">“Now the spirit of Indian religion and spiritual culture has been persistently and immovably the same throughout the long time of its vigour, but its form has undergone remarkable changes. Yet if we look into them from the right centre it will be apparent that these changes are the results of a logical and inevitable evolution inherent in the very process of man’s growth towards the heights. In its earliest form, its first Vedic system, it took its outward foundation on the mind of the physical man whose natural faith is in things physical, in the sensible and visible objects, presences, representations and the external pursuits and aims of this material world. The means, symbols, rites, figures, by which it sought to mediate between the spirit and the normal human mentality were drawn from these most external physical things. Man’s first and primitive idea of the Divine can only come through his vision of external Nature and the sense of a superior Power or Powers concealed behind her phenomena, veiled in the heaven and earth, father and mother of our being, in the sun and moon and stars, its lights and regulators, in dawn and day and night and rain and wind and storm, the oceans and the rivers and the forests, all the circumstances and forces of her scene of action, all that vast and mysterious surrounding life of which we are a part and in which the natural heart and mind of the human creature feel instinctively through whatever bright or dark or confused figures that there is here some divine Multitude or else mighty Infinite, one, manifold and mysterious, which takes these forms and manifests itself in these motions. The Vedic religion took this natural sense and feeling of the physical man; it used the conceptions to which they gave birth, and it sought to lead him through them to the psychic and spiritual truths of his own being and the being of the cosmos. It recognised that he was right when he saw behind the manifestations of Nature great living powers and godheads, even though he knew not their inner truth, and right too in offering to them worship and propitiation and atonement. For that inevitably must be the initial way in which his active physical, vital and mental nature is allowed to approach the Godhead. He approaches it through its visible outward manifestations as something greater than his own natural self, something single or multiple that guides, sustains and directs his life, and he calls to it for help and support in the desires and difficulties and distresses and struggles of his human existence.<span id="footnote-012-backlink"><a class="_idFootnoteLink _idGenColorInherit" href="BharatiyaSamskritiEnglishCommentary-22.xhtml#footnote-012">[9]</a></span> The Vedic religion accepted also the form in which early man everywhere expressed his sense of the relation between himself and the godheads of Nature; it adopted as its central symbol the act and ritual of a physical sacrifice. However crude the notions attached to it, this idea of the necessity of sacrifice did express obscurely a first law of being. For it was founded on that secret of constant interchange between the individual and the universal powers of the cosmos which covertly supports all the process of life and develops the action of Nature. </p>
			<p class="Body-Text">But even in its external or exoteric side the Vedic religion did not limit itself to this acceptance and regulation of the first religious notions of the natural physical mind of man. The Vedic Rishis gave a psychic function to the godheads worshipped by the people; they spoke to them of a higher Truth, Right, Law of which the gods were the guardians, of the necessity of a truer knowledge and a larger inner living according to this Truth and Right and of a home of Immortality to which the soul of man could ascend by the power of Truth and of right doing. The people no doubt took these ideas in their most external sense; but they were trained by them to develop their ethical nature, to turn towards some initial development of their psychic being, to conceive the idea of a knowledge and truth other than that of the physical life and to admit even a first conception of some greater spiritual Reality which was the ultimate object of human worship or aspiration. This religious and moral force was the highest reach of the external cult and the most that could be understood or followed by the mass of the people.</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">The deeper truth of these things was reserved for the initiates, for those who were ready to understand and practise the inner sense, the esoteric meaning hidden in the Vedic scripture. For the Veda is full of words which, as the Rishis themselves express it, are secret words that give their inner meaning only to the seer, kavaye nivacanā niṇyā vacāṁsi. This is a feature of the ancient sacred hymns which grew obscure to later ages; it became a dead tradition and has been entirely ignored by modern scholarship in its laborious attempt to read the hieroglyph of the Vedic symbols. Yet its recognition is essential to a right understanding of almost all the ancient religions; for mostly they started on their upward curve through an esoteric element of which the key was not given to all. In all or most there was a surface cult for the common physical man who was held yet unfit for the psychic and spiritual life and an inner secret of the Mysteries carefully disguised by symbols whose sense was opened only to the initiates. This was the origin of the later distinction between the Shudra, the undeveloped physical-minded man, and the twice-born, those who were capable of entering into the second birth by initiation and to whom alone the Vedic education could be given without danger. This too actuated the later prohibition of any reading or teaching of the Veda by the <a id="_idIndexMarker292"></a>Shudra.<span id="footnote-011-backlink"><a class="_idFootnoteLink _idGenColorInherit" href="BharatiyaSamskritiEnglishCommentary-22.xhtml#footnote-011">[10]</a></span> It was this inner meaning, it was the higher psychic and spiritual truths concealed by the outer sense, that gave to these hymns the name by which they are still known, the Veda, the Book of Knowledge. Only by penetrating into the esoteric sense of this worship can we understand the full flowering of the Vedic religion in the Upanishads and in the long later evolution of Indian spiritual seeking and experience. For it is all there in its luminous seed, preshadowed or even prefigured in the verses of the early seers. The persistent notion which through every change ascribed the foundation of all our culture to the Rishis, whatever its fabulous forms and mythical ascriptions, contains a real truth and veils a sound historic tradition. It reflects the fact of a true initiation and an unbroken continuity between this great primitive past and the riper but hardly greater spiritual development of our historic culture.</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">This inner Vedic religion started with an extension of the psychic significance of the godheads in the Cosmos. Its primary notion was that of a hierarchy of worlds, an ascending stair of planes of being in the universe. It saw a mounting scale of the worlds corresponding to a similar mounting scale of planes or degrees or levels of consciousness in the nature of man. A Truth, Right and Law sustains and governs all these levels of Nature; one in essence, it takes in them different but cognate forms. There is for instance the series of the outer physical light, another higher and inner light which is the vehicle of the mental, vital and psychic consciousness and a highest inmost light of spiritual illumination. <a id="_idIndexMarker293"></a>Surya, the Sun-God, was the lord of the physical Sun; but he is at the same time to the Vedic seer-poet the giver of the rays of knowledge which illumine the mind and he is too the soul and energy and body of the spiritual illumination. And in all these powers he is a luminous form of the one and infinite Godhead. All the Vedic godheads have this outer and this inner and inmost function, their known and their secret Names. All are in their external character powers of physical Nature; all have in their inner meaning a psychic function and psychological ascriptions; all too are various powers of some one highest Reality, ekaṁ sat, the one infinite Existence. This hardly knowable Supreme is called often in the Veda ‘That Truth’ or ‘That One’, tat satyam, tad ekam. This complex character of the Vedic godheads assumes forms which have been wholly misunderstood by those who ascribe to them only their outward physical significance. Each of these gods is in himself a complete and separate cosmic personality of the one Existence and in their combination of powers they form the complete universal power, the cosmic whole, vaiśvadevyam. Each again, apart from his special function, is one godhead with the others; each holds in himself the universal divinity, each god is all the other gods. This is the aspect of the Vedic teaching and worship to which a European scholar, mistaking entirely its significance because he read it in the dim and poor light of European religious experience, has given the sounding misnomer, henotheism. Beyond, in the triple Infinite, these godheads put on their highest nature and are names of the one nameless Ineffable.</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">But the greatest power of the Vedic teaching, that which made it the source of all later Indian philosophies, religions, systems of Yoga, lay in its application to the inner life of man. Man lives in the physical cosmos subject to death and the “much falsehood” of the mortal existence. To rise beyond this death, to become one of the immortals, he has to turn from the falsehood to the Truth; he has to turn to the Light and to battle with and to conquer the powers of the Darkness. This he does by communion with the divine Powers and their aid; the way to call down this aid was the secret of the Vedic mystics. The symbols of the outer sacrifice are given for this purpose in the manner of the Mysteries all over the world an inner meaning; they represent a calling of the gods into the human being, a connecting sacrifice, an intimate interchange, a mutual aid, a communion. There is a building of the powers of the godheads within man and a formation in him of the universality of the divine nature. For the gods are the guardians and increasers of the Truth, the powers of the Immortal, the sons of the infinite Mother; the way to immortality is the upward way of the gods, the way of the Truth, a journey, an ascent by which there is a growth into the law of the Truth, ṛtasya panthāḥ. Man arrives at immortality by breaking beyond the limitations not only of his physical self, but of his mental and his ordinary psychic nature into the highest plane and supreme ether of the Truth: for there is the foundation of immortality and the native seat of the triple Infinite. On these ideas the Vedic sages built up a profound psychological and psychic discipline which led beyond itself to a highest spirituality and contained the nucleus of later Indian Yoga. Already we find in their seed, though not in their full expansion, the most characteristic ideas of Indian spirituality. There is the one Existence, ekaṁ sat, supracosmic beyond the individual and the universe. There is the one God who presents to us the many forms, names, powers, personalities of his Godhead. There is the distinction between the Knowledge and the Ignorance,<span id="footnote-010-backlink"><a class="_idFootnoteLink _idGenColorInherit" href="BharatiyaSamskritiEnglishCommentary-22.xhtml#footnote-010">[11]</a></span> the greater truth of an immortal life opposed to the much falsehood or mixed truth and falsehood of mortal existence. There is the discipline of an inward growth of man from the physical through the psychic to the spiritual existence. There is the conquest of <a id="_idIndexMarker294"></a>death, the secret of immortality, the perception of a realisable divinity of the human spirit. In an age to which in the insolence of our external knowledge we are accustomed to look back as the childhood of humanity or at best a period of vigorous barbarism, this was the inspired and intuitive psychic and spiritual teaching by which the ancient human fathers, pūrve pitaraḥ manuṣyāḥ, founded a great and profound civilisation in India.</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">This high beginning was secured in its results by a larger sublime efflorescence. The Upanishads have always been recognised in India as the crown and end of Veda; that is indicated in their general name, Vedanta. And they are in fact a large crowning outcome of the Vedic discipline and experience. The time in which the <a id="_idIndexMarker295"></a>Vedantic truth was wholly seen and the Upanishads took shape, was, as we can discern from such records as the Chhandogya and Brihadaranyaka, an epoch of immense and strenuous seeking, an intense and ardent seed-time of the Spirit. In the stress of that seeking the truths held by the initiates but kept back from ordinary men broke their barriers, swept through the higher mind of the nation and fertilised the soil of Indian culture for a constant and ever increasing growth of spiritual consciousness and spiritual experience. This turn was not as yet universal; it was chiefly men of the higher classes, Kshatriyas and Brahmins trained in the Vedic system of education, no longer content with an external truth and the works of the outer sacrifice, who began everywhere to seek for the highest word of revealing experience from the sages who possessed the knowledge of the One. But we find too among those who attained to the knowledge and became great teachers men of inferior or doubtful birth like Janashruti, the wealthy Shudra, or Satyakama Jabali, son of a servant-girl who knew not who was his father. The work that was done in this period became the firm bedrock of Indian spirituality in later ages and from it gush still the life-giving waters of a perennial and never failing inspiration. This period, this activity, this grand achievement created the whole difference between the evolution of Indian civilisation and the quite different curve of other cultures. </p>
			<p class="Body-Text">For a time had come when the original Vedic symbols must lose their significance and pass into an obscurity that became impenetrable, as did the inner teaching of the Mysteries in other countries. The old poise of culture between two extremes with a bridge of religious cult and symbolism to unite them, the crude or half-trained naturalness of the outer physical man on one side of the line, and on the other an inner and secret psychic and spiritual life for the initiates could no longer suffice as the basis of our spiritual progress. The human race in its cycle of civilisation needed a large-lined advance; it called for a more and more generalised intellectual, ethical and aesthetic evolution to help it to grow into the light. This turn had to come in India as in other lands. But the danger was that the greater spiritual truth already gained might be lost in the lesser confident half-light of the acute but unillumined intellect or stifled within the narrow limits of the self-sufficient logical reason. That was what actually happened in the West, Greece leading the way. The old knowledge was prolonged in a less inspired, less dynamic and more intellectual form by the Pythagoreans, by the Stoics, by Plato and the Neo-Platonists; but still in spite of them and in spite of the only half-illumined spiritual wave which swept over Europe from Asia in an ill-understood Christianity, the whole real trend of Western civilisation has been intellectual, rational, secular and even materialistic, and it keeps this character to the present day. Its general aim has been a strong or a fine culture of the vital and physical man by the power of an intellectualised ethics, aesthesis and reason, not the leading up of our lower members into the supreme light and power of the spirit. The ancient spiritual knowledge and the spiritual tendency it had created were saved in India from this collapse by the immense effort of the age of the Upanishads. The Vedantic seers renewed the Vedic truth by extricating it from its cryptic symbols and casting it into a highest and most direct and powerful language of intuition and inner experience. It was not the language of the intellect, but still it wore a form which the intellect could take hold of, translate into its own more abstract terms and convert into a starting-point for an ever widening and deepening philosophic speculation and the reason’s long search after a Truth original, supreme and ultimate. There was in India as in the West a great upbuilding of a high, wide and complex intellectual, aesthetic, ethical and social culture. But left in Europe to its own resources, combated rather than helped by obscure religious emotion and dogma, here it was guided, uplifted and more and more penetrated and suffused by a great saving power of spirituality and a vast stimulating and tolerant light of wisdom from a highest ether of knowledge.”49</p>
			<p class="commentary">‡ Sri Aurobindo has provided here a broad perspective on how the essential spirit of the Indian spiritual culture and religion has persistently and unceasingly been the same throughout its long course of development even though the forms that this spirit has taken have undergone remarkable changes with changing times and stages of human development.</p>
			<p class="commentary">Qs: While deliberating on the nature of religion in the Vedic age Sri Aurobindo elaborates on the internal and external function of the Vedic gods. What does it mean when he says that in the Vedic religion ‘each god is all the other gods’, and how is it different from the misnomer ‘henotheism’?</p>
			<p class="commentary">Ans: A term originally from the Greek culture, ‘<a id="_idIndexMarker296"></a>henotheism’ literally means the worship of a single, supreme god while not denying the existence or possible existence of other lower deities and, therefore, carries with itself the sense of the existence of various gods with their well-defined functions, their mutual interactions as well as their discordances and struggles, for such is the nature of the Greek gods. When a European scholar reads in the dim and poor light of his own religious experience the account of the complex character of Vedic Godheads and their respective inner and outer functions, he tends to call it by the term familiar to him, that is henotheism. Whereas, the Indian mind always had this deep perception that all the Godheads are one in their essence and it is only when they come down to the lower levels of manifestation that the action of each deity appears to be different from every other. But being one in their essence, these godheads reassume their original solidarity for one who ascends to the higher levels of consciousness. For ease of understanding, we may liken it to a human individual carrying within himself a multitude of faculties, powers and personality traits. At different times or stages of his development, certain traits or aspects of his complex being may come into prominence and express themselves. But behind all these expressions, however varied or multifarious, the human individual remains the same, and in the totality of his being he is too far above to be defined or delimited by all of these or even infinite other such aspects of his personality put together. Therefore, the Indian mind, from the very outset, had this deep perception that even though there appear to be infinite forms and aspects of the Divine, none of them can claim for itself to be the only real one while disdaining the others. For, it knew that these forms are verily the forms of the one Divine, who, even while manifesting through them all, is not bound or limited by them. But the thing of yet greater significance was that even this deep perception did not in any way overshadow or belittle the significance of any particular form, which was always given its utmost value and importance in this culture. Our Puranic literature also amply brings out this fact where each Purana propounds its own presiding deity as the Supreme and all the other deities as various forms or auxiliary powers of the same. For example, we find Lord Shiva propounded as the Supreme Lord in Shiva Purana, Lord Ganesha in Ganesha Purana, Devi in Devi Purana, and so on. Even the agency of Guru, the human representative of the Divine, has never been taken to be of secondary importance, rather it has always been regarded as the ultimate Parabrahman, and a great emphasis has always been kept on maintaining utmost loyalty and exclusivity towards him.</p>
			<p class="commentary">In the Vedic system, the gods are conscious psychological powers in man. Actually, the whole creation appears to us the way it does because of a given constitution of our consciousness, that is to say, our perception of the world depends on the balance of our psychological powers within. Even for a person of ordinary consciousness, this perception changes with the changing stages of development in his life. As one progresses from his present psychological constitution towards his true goal, the action of Gods too becomes increasingly pervasive encompassing in itself gradually the action of other Gods also which was completely or in most part dormant in the beginning. This progression in the Vedic system is symbolised as the ascent of sacrifice. From the interpretation of the Vedic system given by Sri Aurobindo, it becomes clear that, while each one of the Vedic godheads has its more outer psychological function, each godhead is, at times spoken of in the Veda as the Supreme and Ultimate Reality, containing in itself all the other godheads. For example, the Rishi speaks of Soma in his impersonal manifestation, as the Ananda or delight of divine existence in the human being’s conscious experience. But when he turns, as is the habit of the Vedic Rishis, from the divine manifestation to the divine Person, Soma at once appears as the supreme Personality, the high and universal Deva. It becomes the generator of the worlds of the becoming, for from the Ananda, from the all-blissful One they all proceed; delight is the parent of the variety of existences. The same is the case with all the other Vedic godheads, which justifies the saying ‘each god is all the other gods’. </p>
			<p class="commentary">Qs. It is said that the Vedic Rishis were mystics who reserved their inner knowledge for the initiates; they shielded it from the vulgar by the use of an alphabet of symbols which could not readily be understood without the initiation. What after all is the basic difference between an <a id="_idIndexMarker297"></a>initiate and an ordinary man? </p>
			<p class="commentary">Ans: The Vedic Rishis in India have always had this deep perception that this whole universe is nothing but an objectivisation or manifestation of the Will of the Divine Mother which alone is the true cause of everything. But being completely ignorant of this Divine Will and its action, a sense-bound mentality mistakes the sensory perceptions and phenomenal appearances for the truth and erects on the basis of that false view the whole of its structure of life and action. This for the Indian mentality is falsehood, for it maintains that things in themselves have no value, it is only the spirit within that gives everything its true worth. Therefore, when the central idea of life and ourselves from which we start is a falsehood, all else — our thought, emotion, will and action — is inevitably falsified by it. It is only when one becomes somewhat conscious of that Divine Will and of the form that it assumes in the manifestation that one begins to get some sense of the true cause of things, the truth of this creation. When one psychologically reaches a stage where one is capable of recognising the divine Will (<a id="_idIndexMarker298"></a>Agni) – even though not yet, most of the time, of consciously assenting to it – then it (the stage) may be taken to symbolise the birth of Agni in one’s being. This birth or emergence of truth within effectuates a fundamental exchange of the old externalized outlook towards the world, existence and being for a deeper vision that inevitably reorients in this new light the whole perception about oneself and all that is there. The initiate is such a one, in whom this emergence has taken place, and therefore, no more grossly insisting on one’s own sense-bound mentality, admits and consciously allows in oneself the action of the Divine Mother, who resides as one’s innermost soul. The birth of this Agni is what is termed in the Vedas as the commencement of sacrifice. It is a common experience of all true seekers who have trod the spiritual path that not all the parts of the being are in conformity with the Divine Will at the very outset. One begins one’s march with a whole baggage of parts that do not share this higher aspiration and have their own egoistic motives, deeply ingrained habits, desires, passions, cravings, prejudices, their own set ideas, patterns of thought, norms of right and wrong, and countless other such things. When the sacrifice begins with the kindling of the inner flame, one gradually consecrates the contents of this baggage into the sacrificial fire as oblation and, thus, increasingly substitutes the working of the lower parts by that of the higher ones. The sacrifice thus becomes a means for the sadhak to ascend from his present obscurity and littleness to an ever greater enlightenment, immortality, fulfilment and beatitude. But this mystic symbolism of sacrifice represents a deep psychological, inner and spiritual alchemy of our being in a language of symbols and images the deeper meaning of which can be entered into only by an initiate. The following extract from a letter of <a id="_idIndexMarker299"></a>Sri Krishnaprem provides a clear perspective on the whole distinction between the outlook of a profane and an initiate. He writes, “It is well known that there are three main sources of proof — <a id="_idIndexMarker300"></a>Pratyaksha, Anumana and Shabda (or Aptabachan). Now common opinion starts by assuming that Pratyaksha is the most valid — ‘seeing is believing’ as they say, then Anumana, and lastly authority or Aptabachan. …On the contrary the great seers of the past, of all schools of thought, have taken quite the contrary view. They agreed that inas&#173;much as our senses are notoriously liable to error and super&#173;normal experiences, notoriously liable to misinterpretation, Pratyaksha praman is defective. Inference (Anumana) be&#173;ing dependent on Pratyaksha is liable to the same defects and the best basis for belief is Aptabachan whether in the form of Gurubakya or of Shastra — the two are fundamental&#173;ly the same thing. They then reversed the ordinary order and by so doing arrived not at Russellism but at spiritual experience and Divine realisation. Hence I hold that one must at all costs start from the right end if one is to get the right result. One must give up the stupid belief that the world is what it seems to be. It isn’t, and the sooner we realise that, the better for us. …Has any one yet been known to reach God through Russellism? …No one has yet reached God by reliance on sense-testimony alone.” (Yogi Sri Krishnaprem by D. K. Roy, Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan 1992, pp. 161-63)</p>
			<p class="commentary">Qs: What does it mean that the inner Vedic religion saw ‘a mounting scale of the worlds corresponding to a similar mounting scale of planes or degrees or levels of consciousness in the nature of man’? Also, what is the true meaning of the example of the <a id="_idIndexMarker301"></a>sun presented here by Sri Aurobindo?</p>
			<p class="commentary">Ans: The Indian mind looks upon this entire creation as a manifestation of the Supreme Lord where the Supreme Consciousness has descended from its superconscient levels to the complete Inconscience and, in this process, termed as the process of <a id="_idIndexMarker302"></a>involution, created a descending series of increasingly limited planes of consciousness. When that Consciousness evolves back to its origin, there emerges an ascending stair of planes of being corresponding to the one created in the process of involution. In Indian Puranic literature also one gets an ample account of these planes, worlds or ‘<a id="_idIndexMarker303"></a>lokas’ described variously. But had it not been for a corresponding scale of planes or levels of consciousness that are latent in the nature of man himself, never ever would he be able to come into contact with or become conscious of the whole hierarchy of the levels of consciousness. It is an occult and deep spiritual truth that a human individual is an organised unit of existence which reflects the constitution of the universe and repeats in itself the same arrangement of states and play of forces. Man, subjectively, contains in himself all the worlds in which, objectively, he is contained. In the awareness of the Rishis a world is primarily a formation of consciousness and only secondarily a physical formation of things. A world is a <a id="_idIndexMarker304"></a>loka, a way in which conscious being images itself, which means that as is the observing consciousness so appears this phenomenal existence. For, it is evident that the same creation appears differently to a human being and an insect. Even to different human beings, the actual appearance differs according to the different states of their consciousness and psychology. The Gita too, in its analysis of the double principle of Purusha (soul) and Prakriti (nature), elucidates how this whole appearance of infinitely varied creation comes into existence only by the combination of or an interrelationship between this dual principle, i.e. the observing consciousness and an active objectivity. As the Purusha (the witnessing principle) assumes the various poises of witness, upholder, source of the sanction, knower, enjoyer or lord, Prakriti, the active principle, too seems to execute its operation correspondingly. It is in this sense that it is said that an individual contains in itself the whole creation, for, truly the whole creation is nothing but a projection of one’s own Self. Therefore, one can never come into contact with something, whether in this world or in any other worlds or lokas or planes, which is not potentially contained in that Self. This explains the statement that the inner Vedic religion saw a mounting scale of the worlds corresponding to a similar mounting scale of planes or degrees or levels of consciousness in the nature of man. Having a deep perception of this close correspondence in the working of the spiritual, psychological and physical planes the Vedic Rishis maintained that the forces and processes of the physical world repeat, as in a symbol, the truths of the supraphysical action which preceded it. And since it is by the same forces and the same processes, one in the physical worlds and the supraphysical, that our inner life and its development are governed, the Rishis adopted the phenomena of physical Nature as appropriate symbols for those functionings of the inner life. For, this is the significance of a symbol, that it is an image or a form on one plane representing the truth of a higher plane. It is to illustrate this correspondence that Sri Aurobindo has utilised here the symbol of the Sun. When reflecting upon the action of the Sun on various planes, firstly, it is evident that, materially, it is the Sun that makes earthly existence possible. Illumining and revealing before us all that there exists in this phenomenal world it brings us into contact with the truth of existence and, with its vision-power, helps us discern and have a perspective of a thing in itself and in its relation to other things in a larger view. Surya is not only the illuminator, but also, as the Veda says, Savitri the Creator, and Pushan the Increaser and the Nourisher. Corresponding to the more physical functioning, one finds a yet greater action of Sun in our mentality where it enlightens the mind and the thoughts with the illuminations of the Truth. It is he who delivers the individual human mind from the circumscribed consciousness of self and environment and enlarges the limited and obscure movement which is imposed on it by its preoccupation with its own individuality. Men, as soon as they begin to receive something of this solar illumination, strive to yoke their whole mentality and its thought-contents to the conscious existence of the divine Surya within them. That is to say, they join, as it were, all their obscure mental state and all their erring thoughts to this Light manifested in them so that it may turn the obscurity of the mind into clearness and convert the surface thoughts of the mind into those truths which they distortedly represent. The unbroken succession of the physical dawns is also symbolic of the new openings of divine illumination on man’s consciousness progressively illuminating and sublimating the working of various parts of his being. It should therefore be clear that as compared to its physical function the deeper action of the Sun is still more vast and potent in our mentality. For, the greater fulfilment of our being depends much more on the development and refinement of our deeper psychology than any mere outer intelligence devoid of any deeper insight. Thus, while for a person of superficial consciousness this symbol of Sun carries primarily a more external meaning, it readily reveals its deeper psychological, inner and spiritual significance to a true seeker who has already become conscious of its action in himself. This whole discussion succinctly provides us a perspective on the spirit of Indian religion and spiritual culture in the Vedic times, and also, on how this spirit remained immovably the same throughout even when its form underwent remarkable changes.‡</p>
			<h4 id="_idParaDest-33" class="Subhead3">(ii) The <a id="_idIndexMarker305"></a>Post-Vedic Age</h4>
			<p class="Body-Text">“The second or post-Vedic age of Indian civilisation was distinguished by the rise of the great philosophies, by a copious, vivid, many-thoughted, many-sided epic literature, by the beginnings of art and science, by the evolution of a vigorous and complex society, by the formation of large kingdoms and empires, by manifold formative activities of all kinds and great systems of living and thinking. Here as elsewhere, in Greece, Rome, Persia, China, this was the age of a high outburst of the intelligence working upon life and the things of the mind to discover their reason and their right way and bring out a broad and noble fullness of human existence. But in India this effort never lost sight of the spiritual motive, never missed the touch of the religious sense. It was a birth time and youth of the seeking intellect and, as in Greece, philosophy was the main instrument by which it laboured to solve the problems of life and the world. Science too developed, but it came second only as an auxiliary power. It was through profound and subtle philosophies that the intellect of India attempted to analyse by the reason and logical faculty what had formerly been approached with a much more living force through intuition and the soul’s experience. But the philosophic mind started from the data these mightier powers had discovered and was faithful to its parent Light; it went back always in one form or another to the profound truths of the Upanishads which kept their place as the highest authority in these matters. There was a constant admission that spiritual experience is a greater thing and its light a truer if more incalculable guide than the clarities of the reasoning intelligence. </p>
			<p class="Body-Text">The same governing force kept its hold on all the other activities of the Indian mind and Indian life. The <a id="_idIndexMarker306"></a>epic literature is full almost to excess of a strong and free intellectual and ethical thinking; there is an incessant criticism of life by the intelligence and the ethical reason, an arresting curiosity and desire to fix the norm of truth in all possible fields. But in the background and coming constantly to the front there is too a constant religious sense and an implicit or avowed assent to the spiritual truths which remained the unshakable basis of the culture. These truths suffused with their higher light secular thought and action or stood above to remind them that they were only steps towards a goal. Art in India, contrary to a common idea, dwelt much upon life; but still its highest achievement was always in the field of the interpretation of the religio-philosophical mind and its whole tone was coloured by a suggestion of the spiritual and the infinite. Indian society developed with an unsurpassed organising ability, stable effectiveness, practical insight its communal coordination of the mundane life of interest and desire, kāma, artha; it governed always its action by a reference at every point to the moral and religious law, the Dharma: but it never lost sight of spiritual liberation as our highest point and the ultimate aim of the effort of Life. In later times when there was a still stronger secular tendency of intellectual culture, there came in an immense development of the mundane intelligence, an opulent political and social evolution, an emphatic stressing of aesthetic, sensuous and hedonistic experience. But this effort too always strove to keep itself within the ancient frame and not to lose the special stamp of the Indian cultural idea. The enlarged secular turn was compensated by a deepening of the intensities of psycho-religious experience. New religious or mystic forms and disciplines attempted to seize not only the soul and the intellect, but the emotions, the senses, the vital and the aesthetic nature of man and turn them into stuff of the spiritual life. And every excess of emphasis on the splendour and richness and power and pleasures of life had its recoil and was balanced by a corresponding potent stress on spiritual asceticism as the higher way. The two trends, on one side an extreme of the richness of life experience, on the other an extreme and pure rigorous intensity of the spiritual life, accompanied each other; their interaction, whatever loss there might be of the earlier deep harmony and large synthesis, yet by their double pull preserved something still of the balance of Indian culture. </p>
			<p class="Body-Text">Indian religion followed this line of evolution and kept its inner continuity with its Vedic and Vedantic origins; but it changed entirely its mental contents and colour and its outward basis. It did not effectuate this change through any protestant revolt or revolution or with any idea of an iconoclastic reformation. A continuous development of its organic life took place, a natural transformation brought out latent motives or else gave to already established motive-ideas a more predominant place or effective form. At one time indeed it seemed as if a discontinuity and a sharp new beginning were needed and would take place. <a id="_idIndexMarker307"></a>Buddhism seemed to reject all spiritual continuity with the Vedic religion. But this was after all less in reality than in appearance. The Buddhist ideal of Nirvana was no more than a sharply negative and exclusive statement of the highest Vedantic spiritual experience. The ethical system of the eightfold path taken as the way to release was an austere sublimation of the Vedic notion of the Right, Truth and Law followed as the way to immortality, ṛtasya panthāḥ. The strongest note of Mahayana Buddhism, its stress on universal compassion and fellow-feeling, was an ethical application of the spiritual unity which is the essential idea of Vedanta.<span id="footnote-009-backlink"><a class="_idFootnoteLink _idGenColorInherit" href="BharatiyaSamskritiEnglishCommentary-22.xhtml#footnote-009">[12]</a></span> The most characteristic tenets of the new discipline, Nirvana and Karma, could have been supported from the utterances of the Brahmanas and Upanishads. Buddhism could easily have claimed for itself a Vedic origin and the claim would have been no less valid than the Vedic ascription of the Sankhya philosophy and discipline with which it had some points of intimate alliance. But what hurt Buddhism and determined in the end its rejection, was not its denial of a Vedic origin or authority, but the exclusive trenchancy of its intellectual, ethical and spiritual positions. A result of an intense stress of the union of logical reason with the spiritualised mind – for it was by an intense spiritual search supported on a clear and hard rational thinking that it was born as a separate religion, – its trenchant affirmations and still more exclusive negations could not be made sufficiently compatible with the native flexibility, many-sided susceptibility and rich synthetic turn of the Indian religious consciousness; it was a high creed but not plastic enough to hold the heart of the people. Indian religion absorbed all that it could of Buddhism, but rejected its exclusive positions and preserved the full line of its own continuity, casting back to the ancient Vedanta.”50</p>
			<p class="commentary">‡ The whole curve of the evolution of Indian religion, through the ages, has gradually moved down the descending planes of consciousness towards bringing under Spirit’s influence and infusing with its light even the most external and material parts of human nature to turn them into the soul’s instruments for its faultless expression. In the far off times, the times of the Vedas, the Rishis were moved through the intuition and there was no need of set forms and institutions, the Spirit permeated and moulded the whole of society directly through the intuition of the Rishis. The Vedic age was the period when Truth revealed itself by the power of deep spiritual intuition, inspiration and revelation, so the Vedas were unintelligible to the ordinary human mentality. Consequently, as the intellect and mental being needed to be moulded, in the times of the Upanishads, the Vedic truth was renewed by extricating it from its cryptic symbols and casting it into the language of intuition which was not as completely inaccessible to the intellect in the Vedas. The powerful intuitive aphoristic style of the Upanishads wore a form that the higher part of Buddhi could get hold of and catch a glimpse of the truths expressed there. Then creating mental forms for the expression of the Spirit, the six Darshanas (the six systems of Yoga) arose with their revelation of the different aspects of the Divine and practical ways of reaching him, with Gita as the crowning movement, synthesising the different strands masterfully for all times. Then as the expression of the Spirit descended into the heart, the emotional being, into the various strands of life, there came the Puranas and the Tantras, to establish the possibility of opening all these parts of life to the Divine. Various ways of worshiping the Divine through the emotional and sensational being developed with a plethora of rites, rituals, religious ceremonies connecting man to the Divinity concealed in every element of creation. It was inevitable that this enriching descent from the spirit to matter should take into account even the aesthetic, hedonistic and sensuous parts of the being and, while giving them their just chance of satisfaction, help them grow into the deeper light, so came Kalidasa and others. The coming of Sri <a id="_idIndexMarker309"></a>Chaitanya and the various saints of the Santmat established Bhakti and the possibility of opening the various levels and parts of the vital, emotional being to the Divine with greater completeness. Bhakti could transcend and synthesise all other ways and means on the ultimate path. As an overabundance of paths and sects mushroomed, Sri <a id="_idIndexMarker310"></a>Ramakrishna provided a synthesizing influence weaving them into a single strand leading to the Divine. But without the transformation of Matter, the most material part of the being, there was always a blockage, a stumbling block to the complete consecration; <a id="_idIndexMarker311"></a>death always proved to be an abrupt pause, a long hiatus on the greatest spiritual journey. But this coming down of the Spirit to the very realm of matter and the material human nature to act upon and transform them, is for it, in a sense, fighting the battle in enemy’s own territory in utterly adverse conditions. For, it has to meet a fierce resistance of the grosser parts and, therefore, it cannot act upon them with the same facility with which it could upon the higher parts of the human nature. Sri Aurobindo and The Mother have come with their secret of the Supramental descent to solve this last riddle, provide the final answer. </p>
			<p class="commentary">Having provided a bird’s eye view of the essential spirit of Indian religion and the forms it developed in the Vedic and the Vedantic ages, Sri Aurobindo here does the same for the post-Vedic age. It is only in the light of this vast overview that one can see the hidden logic and a perfect coherence behind all the various forms taken by Indian religion in different ages. An evolution so begun had to proceed by a sort of enriching descent from the spirit to matter and to pass on first to an intellectual endeavour to see life and the world and the self in all their relations as they present themselves to the reasoning and the practical intelligence. When the mind is open to higher truths, it tries to analyse and organise life and the world in that light. This inevitably brings about a remarkable upliftment in all the aspects of individual and collective existence. As in India, we find a similar period of an outburst of high intelligence in other cultures also, accompanied by a great activity in the various fields of human thought and life. But there is a fundamental difference between the path taken by this intellectual development in India and in other cultures. While in other cultures the intellect diverged from the original intuition and lost its touch with the deeper truths which resulted in a growing dominance of the vital nature in man, in Indian culture the Rishis always gave spirituality the paramount importance and kept the human mind and intellect subservient to it which, to a great extent, prevented the intellect from becoming a stooge of the ego and the blind vital propensities. One must never lose sight of this fundamental truth that to subordinate the intellect, or any other part of our being, to a higher light does not in any way limit its scope or confine its possibilities. On the contrary, it greatly widens its scope, opens up before it such novel possibilities and vistas as would otherwise have not been possible or even conceivable. This explains the secret behind the multifarious activity in India, unparalleled both in quality and quantity, not only in the things of the mind and the spirit but even in those areas concerned more with the outer material life. Our <a id="_idIndexMarker312"></a>epic literature vividly illustrates through various episodes, tales and anecdotes how each and every activity and detail of life can be successfully dealt with in a higher light and given a higher turn. Thus we find there is a whole scale of rising truths ranging from the ethical and moral to progressively more exalted spiritual truths through which both an individual and the collectivity could ascend towards the highest spiritual attainment. There is hardly enough appreciation of this prodigious attempt — not even conceived anywhere else — and supreme achievement of this culture in having successfully dealt with and turned Godwards even the most unruly and despotic parts of our being. It is in this context that Sri Aurobindo writes here ‘The enlarged secular turn was compensated by a deepening of the intensities of psycho-religious experience’. This great attempt reaches its culmination in the Bhagawat Purana where not only all the different parts of the human being with their own nature and disposition but even the demonic or Asuric natures and tendencies are brought into contact with the Divine.</p>
			<p class="commentary">When Sri Aurobindo says that ‘Science too developed, but it came second only as an auxiliary power’, it should not be taken to mean that the development of science was ignored in this culture, for the overwhelming record of the prolific achievements in the field of physical science leave no shadow of doubt on that account. He is just affirming, through this comparison, the paramount importance that this culture always gave to the higher pursuits giving all else a secondary place. Western culture, with its materialistic outlook, supposes matter to be the sole basis of everything and firmly believes that a deeper probe into the laws of matter will eventually enable it to thoroughly understand and solve all the problems of physical existence. Indian culture, starting from a completely different and a deeper outlook, firmly held that only by entering into the mysteries of the higher realms can the working of the lower ones be truly understood and effectively mastered. This is why all the later philosophies and schools of thought in India accepted the truths revealed in the Vedas and the Vedanta as final and concerned themselves not with the enquiry of the fundamental cause or the why of this creation, but rather with the application of those truths, or say, with the interpretation of how those truths, contained in the Veda, unfolded and manifested themselves in the outermost parts of our being. All the later schools of thought in India, however divergent or discordant in themselves, and however ignorant of the deeper meaning of the Veda, unquestionably accept the Veda as their rock of firm foundation. Swami <a id="_idIndexMarker313"></a>Dayananda even went so far as to assert that the Vedas not only contain the profound spiritual, psychological and inner truths of our being and existence but even those truths of physical nature to which modern science has only arrived at with much difficulty, and even more, it contains even those truths to which science can hardly ever arrive at or even conceive of with its current approach of enquiry. </p>
			<p class="commentary">One can thus see how from the Vedic origin to all the later ages, religion has always been the chief note and a constant undercurrent of Indian culture and has always had its great influence not only in the fields of mind and spirit such as philosophy, art, literature etc. but even on the more outward concerns of material life. The constancy of the essential spirit even in the apparent change in outer forms of religion can very well be equated to that perennial stream that even while assuming different forms according to the changing course of its flow remains essentially the same throughout. This is a common phenomenon even in the life of a true spiritual seeker when the outer expression in life inevitably changes with his progressive ascension in consciousness and the resulting change in the states of inner and psychological development. But this outer change is a spontaneous outcome of the inner development and does not come by any revolt. This clearly explains the statement of Sri Aurobindo that, ‘Indian religion followed this line of evolution and kept its inner continuity with its Vedic and Vedantic origins; but it changed entirely its mental contents and colour and its outward basis. It did not effectuate this change through any protestant revolt or revolution or with any idea of an iconoclastic reformation.’ The Purano-tantric stage followed the post-Vedic stage of religion. ‡</p>
			<h4 id="_idParaDest-34" class="Subhead3">(iii) The <a id="_idIndexMarker314"></a>Purano-Tantric Stage</h4>
			<p class="Body-Text">“This lasting line of change moved forward not by any destruction of principle, but by a gradual fading out of the prominent Vedic forms and the substitution of others. There was a transformation of symbol and ritual and ceremony or a substitution of new kindred figures, an emergence of things that are only hints in the original system, a development of novel idea-forms from the seed of the original thinking. And especially there was a farther widening and fathoming of psychic and spiritual experience. The Vedic gods rapidly lost their deep original significance. At first they kept their hold by their outer cosmic sense but were overshadowed by the great Trinity, Brahma-Vishnu-Shiva, and afterwards faded altogether. A new pantheon appeared which in its outward symbolic aspects expressed a deeper truth and larger range of religious experience, an intenser feeling, a vaster idea. The Vedic sacrifice persisted only in broken and lessening fragments. The house of Fire was replaced by the temple; the karmic ritual of sacrifice was transformed into the devotional temple ritual; the vague and shifting mental images of the Vedic gods figured in the mantras yielded to more precise conceptual forms of the two great deities, Vishnu and Shiva, and of their Shaktis and their offshoots. These new concepts stabilised in physical images which were made the basis both for internal adoration and for the external worship which replaced sacrifice. The psychic and spiritual mystic endeavour which was the inner sense of the Vedic hymns, disappeared into the less intensely luminous but more wide and rich and complex psycho-spiritual inner life of Puranic and Tantric religion and Yoga.</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">The Purano-Tantric stage of the religion was once decried by European critics and Indian reformers as a base and ignorant degradation of an earlier and purer religion. It was rather an effort, successful in a great measure, to open the general mind of the people to a higher and deeper range of inner truth and experience and feeling. Much of the adverse criticism once heard proceeded from a total ignorance of the sense and intention of this worship. Much of this criticism has been uselessly concentrated on side-paths and aberrations which could hardly be avoided in this immensely audacious experimental widening of the basis of the culture. For there was a catholic attempt to draw towards the spiritual truth minds of all qualities and people of all classes. Much was lost of the profound psychic knowledge of the Vedic seers, but much also of new knowledge was developed, untrodden ways were opened and a hundred gates discovered into the Infinite. If we try to see the essential sense and aim of this development and the intrinsic value of its forms and means and symbols, we shall find that this evolution followed upon the early Vedic form very much for the same reason as Catholic Christianity replaced the mysteries and sacrifices of the early Pagan religions. For in both cases the outward basis of the early religion spoke to the outward physical mind of the people and took that as the starting-point of its appeal. But the new evolution tried to awaken a more inner mind even in the common man, to lay hold on his inner vital and emotional nature, to support all by an awakening of the soul and to lead him through these things towards a highest spiritual truth. It attempted in fact to bring the mass into the temple of the spirit rather than leave them in the outer precincts. The outward physical sense was satisfied through its aesthetic turn by a picturesque temple worship, by numerous ceremonies, by the use of physical images; but these were given a psycho-emotional sense and direction that was open to the heart and imagination of the ordinary man and not reserved for the deeper sight of the elect or the strenuous tapasya of the initiates. The secret initiation remained but was now a condition for the passage from the surface psycho-emotional and religious to a profounder psychic-spiritual truth and experience. </p>
			<p class="Body-Text">Nothing essential was touched in its core by this new orientation; but the instruments, atmosphere, field of religious experience underwent a considerable change. The Vedic godheads were to the mass of their worshippers divine powers who presided over the workings of the outward life of the physical cosmos; the Puranic Trinity had even for the multitude a predominant psycho-religious and spiritual significance. Its more external significances, for instance the functions of cosmic creation, preservation and destruction, were only a dependent fringe of these profundities that alone touched the heart of its mystery. The central spiritual truth remained in both systems the same, the truth of the One in many aspects. The Trinity is a triple form of the one supreme Godhead and Brahman; the Shaktis are energies of the one Energy of the highest divine Being. But this greatest religious truth was no longer reserved for the initiated few; it was now more and more brought powerfully, widely and intensely home to the general mind and feeling of the people. Even the so-called <a id="_idIndexMarker315"></a>henotheism of the Vedic idea was prolonged and heightened in the larger and simpler worship of Vishnu or Shiva as the one universal and highest Godhead of whom all others are living forms and powers. The idea of the Divinity in man was popularised to an extraordinary extent, not only the occasional manifestation of the Divine in humanity which founded the worship of the Avataras, but the Presence discoverable in the heart of every creature. The systems of Yoga developed themselves on the same common basis. All led or hoped to lead through many kinds of psycho-physical, inner vital, inner mental and psycho-spiritual methods to the common aim of all Indian spirituality, a greater consciousness and a more or less complete union with the One and Divine or else an immergence of the individual soul in the Absolute. The Purano-Tantric system was a wide, assured and many-sided endeavour, unparalleled in its power, insight, amplitude, to provide the race with a basis of generalised psycho-religious experience from which man could rise through knowledge, works or love or through any other fundamental power of his nature to some established supreme experience and highest absolute status.”51</p>
			<p class="commentary">‡ It is Sri Aurobindo alone who gives us such a comprehensive perspective of the Purano-Tantric stage of Indian religion. When viewed in this light, we find, on the one hand that the numerous misunderstandings, misconceptions and criticisms of this period are the result of viewing it from a deluded point of view or from a view concentrated on one of its many side paths or ways or evaluating it while suffering from prejudice. On the other hand, if the evolution of Indian religion is viewed rightly, we find the inevitability of this stage, its true justification and paramount importance. It is Purano-Tantric development which has kept the Soul of India, the Indian religion, the stream of spirituality alive, up until today, otherwise it would have been dead among the educated people of the present like the cultures of Greece and Rome. That is why Sri Aurobindo says that, generally, echoing western critics, we attempt to base ourselves intellectually on the Upanishads and the Gita, trying to denigrate the Puranas by calling them a collection of mythological stories, but in practice, we live much more by the religion of the Puranas and Tantras than by the Upanishads, because the Puranas and Tantras are practical applications in life of that same profound inner spiritual experience which the Upanishads express intellectually. However, if the truth can be manifested only in the pure intellect or the higher parts of the human being then, the lower parts could never experience the touch of their truth and find their inherent fulfilment. In such a case, there would always be the likelihood that the religion established in the intellect would be fossilised, in the dead formalism of religious Theism or the dry intellectualisation of Philosophy like that of the Europeans. The Purano-Tantric stage saved Indian religion from exactly this possibility. It acted as a bridge which gave the people a comprehensive corpus of thoughts, parables and symbols which attracted their imagination and emotions, their ethical and aesthetic being and were partly manifestations of the spiritual Truth and partly that of ordinary religious sentiment and spiritual emotion. It made it easier for people to spontaneously turn their more external, practical and emotional nature towards the treasures of the Spirit and permit it to have an increasing entry into their life.</p>
			<p class="commentary">&#9;If we would deal, in brief, with the common misconceptions about this development of religion, then, first and foremost, it has to be understood that this was not the result of any kind of distortion or depletion nor was it a diminished or ignorant successor of an ancient and pure religion. These kind of misconceptions arise when we are completely ignorant of the profound meaning and purpose behind the outer forms, symbols, rituals etc. that the religion uses at this stage; or, when we begin to think that the limitations and falsifications of the notions of Truth that religion has to accept in an attempt to work on human nature are the distortions of the Truth itself. Another major reason for the accusations of distortion has been the fact that, unlike the Vedic and Vedantic times, when only initiates and spiritually developed souls were allowed into the mystical doors the purity of the religion was easier to maintain; in the Purano-Tantric times, the hugely ambitious, comprehensive and largely successful endeavor was made to bring the common people under the influence of the Spirit. But it would be unreasonable to expect the religion to retain its original purity in so all-encompassing an effort. Leading even a committed group of people towards a higher ideal becomes a challenging task without a developed spiritual consciousness and balance because of the limitations of human nature. So even the concept of manifesting materially the spiritual Truth on a collective scale is an indication, not of the pettiness or deficiency of the religion but of its ultimate courage and greatness. And the organisation of the necessary means and resources to fulfil such a concept shows the superhuman capacity of Indian culture. Thus seen, we appreciate not only the baselessness of the accusations and criticisms but also the paramount importance of this stage in the endurance of the Indian religion. At the same time, we must not forget that human nature has always, more or less, lived in the external, desire-ridden consciousness bound by the body. It is only the presence of the Rishis and Yogis that has kept the spiritual lineage unbroken in all ages and times, has made the spiritual truths clear, accessible and effective for humans and has created the various means by which the ordinary human mind can turn towards and even enter into those truths. ‡</p>
			<h4 id="_idParaDest-35" class="Subhead3">(iv) The Third and the Last Stage</h4>
			<p class="Body-Text">“This great effort and achievement which covered all the time between the Vedic age and the decline of Buddhism, was still not the last possibility of religious evolution open to Indian culture. The Vedic training of the physically-minded man made the development possible. But in its turn this raising of the basis of religion to the inner mind and life and psychic nature, this training and bringing out of the psychic man ought to make possible a still larger development and support a greater spiritual movement as the leading power of life. The first stage makes possible the preparation of the natural external man for spirituality; the second takes up his outward life into a deeper mental and psychical living and brings him more directly into contact with the spirit and divinity within him; the third should render him capable of taking up his whole mental, psychical, physical living into a first beginning at least of a generalised spiritual life. This endeavour has manifested itself in the evolution of Indian spirituality and is the significance of the latest philosophies, the great spiritual movements of the saints and bhaktas and an increasing resort to the various paths of Yoga. But unhappily it synchronised with a decline of Indian culture and an increasing collapse of its general power and knowledge, and in these surroundings it could not bear its natural fruit; but at the same time it has done much to prepare such a possibility in the future. If Indian culture is to survive and keep its spiritual basis and innate character, it is in this direction, and not in a mere revival or prolongation of the Puranic system, that its evolution must turn, rising so towards the fulfilment of that which the Vedic seers saw as the aim of man and his life thousands of years ago and the Vedantic sages cast into the clear and immortal forms of their luminous revelation.</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">Even the psychic-emotional part of man’s nature is not the inmost door to religious feeling, nor is his inner mind the highest witness to spiritual experience. There is behind the first the inmost soul of man, in that deepest secret heart, hṛdaye guhāyām, in which the ancient seers saw the very tabernacle of the indwelling Godhead and there is above the second a luminous highest mind directly open to a truth of the Spirit to which man’s normal nature has as yet only an occasional and momentary access. Religious evolution, spiritual experience can find their true native road only when they open to these hidden powers and make them their support for a lasting change, a divinisation of human life and nature. An effort of this kind was the very force behind the most luminous and vivid of the later movements of India’s vast religious cycle. It is the secret of the most powerful forms of <a id="_idIndexMarker316"></a>Vaishnavism and <a id="_idIndexMarker317"></a>Tantra and Yoga. The labour of ascent from our half-animal human nature into the fresh purity of the spiritual consciousness needed to be followed and supplemented by a descent of the light and force of the spirit into man’s members and the attempt to transform human into divine nature.</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">But it could not find its complete way or its fruit because it synchronised with a decline of the life force in India and a lowering of power and knowledge in her general civilisation and culture. Nevertheless here lies the destined force of her survival and renewal, this is the dynamic meaning of her future. A widest and highest spiritualising of life on earth is the last vision of all that vast and unexampled seeking and experiment in a thousand ways of the soul’s outermost and innermost experience which is the unique character of her past; this in the end is the mission for which she was born and the meaning of her existence.”52</p>
			<p class="commentary">‡ Qs: How should one look at the decline of the vitality of Indian culture and an increasing collapse of its general power and knowledge?</p>
			<p class="commentary">Ans: There can be more than one way in which this can be viewed in the light of Sri Aurobindo. Firstly, one must always bear in mind that the action of the Divine Mother is so vast and many-sided that it is impossible even for the deepest, freest and the most profound mental intelligence to understand, define or formulate it. The formulations can be no more than various ways of looking at the Absolute Truth that can at best capture some kind of glimpse of it. Therefore, when a culture begins with some conception of truth, however high or wide that may be, and strives to express that into outer forms, inevitably it finds, sooner or later, that once the utility of those forms is over they tend to become insufficient, or even bondages, for the expression of the original idea. Besides, even the original conception in itself being a partial truth needs to be perpetually renewed, failing which a culture is bound to undergo a period of decline or degeneration, as is evident from the case of even those civilisations of the past that had once succeeded in reaching great heights of growth and expansion. During its long historical past, Indian civilisation too has time and again undergone such periods of transition. But an unbroken continuity of saints and sages here not only kept on renewing that Absolute truth in their own experiences but even reestablished it by moulding it into new forms more suitable for the need of the spirit of the age. This has been the perennial source of light and renovation that has always kept this culture moving steadily towards its goal. Even in times of foreign invasions, dominations and their gruesome atrocities, the force of her survival and revival remained intact due to the presence of great spiritual masters. Sri Aurobindo reveals in one of his writings that even in our own era when scepticism had reached its height, and a time had come for spirituality to reassert itself and establish the reality of the world as a manifestation of the spirit, Sri <a id="_idIndexMarker318"></a>Ramakrishna came to begin the consummation of this work by harmonising and revivifying all the spiritual teaching and experience of the previous two thousand years and more since Buddha appeared. Therefore, for most other cultures, the insufficiency of outer forms to house the spirit may have been the main reason behind their decline and decay, but the same is not true in the case of Indian culture. We must therefore bring into consideration other possible aspects to get some perspective on the decline of the vitality of Indian culture.</p>
			<p class="commentary">If one looks from a deeper perspective at the whole curve of the evolution of Indian religion, which through the ages, has gradually moved down towards the descending planes of consciousness bringing under the Spirit’s influence and infusing with its light even the most external and material parts of human nature to turn them into the soul’s instruments for its faultless expression. In the far off times, the times of the Vedas, the Rishis were moved through the intuition and there was no need of set forms and institutions, the Spirit permeated and moulded the whole of society directly through the intuition of the Rishis. Then as the intellect and mental being needed to be moulded, the Spirit came through the Upanishads and Vedanta, creating mental forms for the expression of the Spirit. The <a id="_idIndexMarker319"></a>six Darshanas arose with their revelation of the different aspects of the Divine and practical ways of reaching him, with Gita as the crowning movement, synthesising the different strands masterfully by rising above them all. Then as the Spirit descended into the heart, the emotional being, into the various strands of life, came the Puranas and the Tantra, to establish the possibility of opening all these aspects of life to the Divine. Various ways of worshipping the Divine through the emotional and sensational being developed along with a plethora of rites, rituals, religious ceremonies connecting man to the Divinity concealed in every element of creation. The age of Kalidasa and others effected an opening of the hedonistic parts of our being making it easier for them to turn towards the Divine. The coming of Sri <a id="_idIndexMarker320"></a>Chaitanya and the various saints of the Santmat established Bhakti and the possibility of opening the various levels and parts of the vital, emotional being to the Divine with greater completeness. Bhakti can transcend all other ways and means on the ultimate path. As an overabundance of paths and sects mushroomed, Sri <a id="_idIndexMarker321"></a>Ramakrishna provided a synthesizing influence weaving them into a single strand leading to the Divine. But without the transformation of Matter, the most material part of the being, there was always a blockage, a stumbling block to the complete consecration; death always proved to be an abrupt pause, a long hiatus on the greatest spiritual journey. But this coming down of the Spirit to the very realm of matter and the material human nature to act upon and transform them, is for it, in a sense, like fighting the battle in enemy’s own territory in utterly adverse conditions. For, it has to meet a fierce resistance of the grossest parts and, therefore, it cannot act upon them with the same facility with which it could upon the higher parts of the human being. Sri Aurobindo and The Mother have come with their secret of the Supramental descent to solve this last riddle, provide the final answer. Along with this development of Dharma, there is yet another more universal cycle of <a id="_idIndexMarker322"></a>Yugas (ages) that moves from Satyayuga to Kali and through Kali to the Satya. According to the Hindu theory of the Yugas, in the Satyayuga, Yajna, the spirit of sacrifice reigns in the hearts of men and they follow the law by the power of their purified nature and full knowledge. Therefore, there is no need of external ritual, external sacrifices, elaborate law, government, castes, classes and creeds. In the Treta the old perfect order begins to break and Vishnu descends as the Chakravarti raja, the warrior and ruler, and the sword, law and the written Veda are instituted to govern men. But there is still great elasticity and freedom and within certain limits men follow the healthy impulse of their nature, only slightly corrupted by the first descent from purity. It is in the Dwapara, when one is further alienated from one’s inner being, that form and rule have to take the place of the idea and the spirit as the true governors of religion, ethics and society. Vishnu then descends as Vyasa to codify, ritualise and formalise everything to provide detailed codes of conduct to help an individual and the society at each step to securely move according to dharma. Kaliyuga then destroys all these laws and codes of conduct. When we consider these two movements and look at our present debilitated condition we can see how far we have drifted away from the original vigour and strength. Indeed, all the great achievements in the field of human thought, action and experience of the Vedic and post-Vedic eras of Indian culture seem almost unimaginable and impossible for the present human capability. Even the account of the great intellectual, ethical, moral and physical strength and capacity of the people that we get from history seems to the present mentality rather a fiction or an exaggerated literary production than a reality. It is this period of transition of this culture to which the eye of the antagonist turns and, refusing to see or recognise the millenniums of culture and greatness of Indian civilisation, tries to present before us in the strongest terms possible the poverty, confusion and disorganisation of a period of temporary decline as the whole of this culture. It is only in the light of Sri Aurobindo that one gets a true perspective and understanding of not only this transitional stage of the culture but also of how the supreme intelligence of Rishis has always been active even in the darkest days to guide this culture towards its true mission.</p>
			<p class="commentary">Further, while talking about the third and the last stage of religion Sri Aurobindo states here that this stage should render man capable of taking up his whole mental, psychical, physical living at least into a first beginning of a generalised spiritual life. It is this raising and transformation even of the very material life and nature which has been envisioned by the Vedic rishis since time immemorial as the true aim of man and his existence. Although from the very outset this culture has cut out infinite roads and developed innumerable systems to move towards the spiritual goal, still all of these have been in the most part concerned with the individual and his pursuit towards the spiritual ideal, and the great endeavour of the Sanatana Dharma to effectively establish and express itself in the human collectivity seems to have found no secure basis as yet. But when the culture reached a stage where the surface physical nature of man began to dominate and, overshadowing the original intuition, the egoistic forces came to take the precedence, it posed a serious problem in the synthesis, unification and management of not only more than a hundred kingdoms, clans, peoples, tribes, races with their own distinct cultural identities but also of the innumerable systems of Yoga, spiritual paths, traditions, schools of thought, etc. that existed in the vast territory of India. It was the supreme intelligence and intuition of the great Rishis and founders of this culture who saw that to keep the culture and Sanatana Dharma alive in such conditions, a conscious spiritual and <a id="_idIndexMarker323"></a>cultural unity of all these peoples was the first, the indispensable condition without which no enduring political and imperial unity could be possible. It was with these considerations that the Rishis, the guardians of India’s destiny, wisely and consciously chose to refuse any strong outward political unification, whatever the consequences. But those who have no sense of the deeper working and truth of things, strongly condemn and point out that by not insisting primarily on an imperial unity, India had to suffer its painful consequences. It is usually these consequences of a conscious choice that to a surface mentality seem to be the obvious signs of decline or downfall of this culture and the indisputable proofs of its weakness and incapacity. But would it not have been a greater disaster for India, and even more so for the whole world, if it had staked and lost its original peculiarity, its indelible spiritual stamp and its underlying oneness amidst all diversities in an attempt to achieve some outward unity by artificial means. As Yogi Sri <a id="_idIndexMarker324"></a>Krishnaprem said, “When the traditions of a nation die, then the nation is dead, and even if it persists as a great Power in the world, yet it is nothing but an aggregate of meaningless individuals determinedly pursuing their <a id="_idIndexMarker325"></a>contemptible aims.” (Yogi Sri Krishnaprem, Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, 1992 edition, page 8) For example, even a strong political unification effected by an external rule centralised, imposed or constructed, as was done in Rome or ancient Persia, by a conquering kingdom or the genius of a military and organising people did not endure, but India still survives, and that too in a true sense, and firmly advances towards its destined goal. It is only when viewed in this light that behind all the seemingly incoherent accidents one gets some glimpse of a perfectly guided action by the higher wisdom of our Rishis. Also, the decline of the vitality of Indian culture and an increasing collapse of its general power and knowledge should not be taken to mean the decline of this culture. Any culture necessarily meets in its course periods of crisis and transition and, therefore, its true greatness lies in its power of survival, renovation and adaptation to new phases of the permanent needs of the race. The coming of Sri Aurobindo, in a way, marks the commencement of a new phase that assures us of the renaissance of Indian culture and also of the movement towards the consummation of the destined goal of Sanatana Dharma. Not only did the soul of India reveal and revive its past mysteries through Sri Aurobindo but has even placed before the individual and collective human soul the whole blueprint of its future movement towards the establishment of a divine life in a divine body. Even his proclamation of the advent of divine life on earth by the manifestation of supramental consciousness is a continuation of the spiritual movement of Indian culture. ‡</p>
			<hr class="HorizontalRule-1" />
			<div class="_idFootnotes">
				<div id="footnote-012" class="_idFootnote" epub:type="footnote">
					<p class="Footnote"><a class="_idFootnoteAnchor _idGenColorInherit" href="BharatiyaSamskritiEnglishCommentary-22.xhtml#footnote-012-backlink">[9]</a>&#9;The Gita recognises four kinds or degrees of worshippers and God-seekers. There are first the arthārthī and <a id="_idIndexMarker291"></a>ārta, those who seek him for the fulfilment of desire and those who turn for divine help in the sorrow and suffering of existence; there is next the jijñāsu, the seeker of knowledge, the questioner who is moved to seek the Divine in his truth and in that to meet him; last and highest, there is the jñānī who has already contact with the truth and is able to live in unity with the Spirit.</p>
				</div>
				<div id="footnote-011" class="_idFootnote" epub:type="footnote">
					<p class="Footnote"><a class="_idFootnoteAnchor _idGenColorInherit" href="BharatiyaSamskritiEnglishCommentary-22.xhtml#footnote-011-backlink">[10]</a>&#9;“The ancients held that all men are born in their lower nature as Shudras and only regenerated by ethical and spiritual culture, but in their highest inner self are Brahmanas capable of the full spirit and godhead, a theory which is not far perhaps from the psychological truth of our nature.”48</p>
					<p class="Footnote">The above psychological truth of our nature must have been at the root of this prohibition because, otherwise, if based on a system of distinguishing between persons merely on the basis of a system of Caste or Varna based on birth, it is an entire absurdity to which no right minded person can acquiesce to. It is however, correct to say that no person who lives predominantly in his surface physical nature (as most do) and is, therefore, a being of very small (shudra) consciousness, can profitably study the Veda.</p>
				</div>
				<div id="footnote-010" class="_idFootnote" epub:type="footnote">
					<p class="Footnote"><a class="_idFootnoteAnchor _idGenColorInherit" href="BharatiyaSamskritiEnglishCommentary-22.xhtml#footnote-010-backlink">[11]</a> Cittim acittiṁ cinavad vi vidvān. “Let the knower distinguish the Knowledge and the Ignorance.”</p>
				</div>
				<div id="footnote-009" class="_idFootnote" epub:type="footnote">
					<p class="Footnote"><a class="_idFootnoteAnchor _idGenColorInherit" href="BharatiyaSamskritiEnglishCommentary-22.xhtml#footnote-009-backlink">[12]</a>&#9;<a id="_idIndexMarker308"></a>Buddha himself does not seem to have preached his tenets as a novel revolutionary creed, but as the old Aryan way, the true form of the eternal religion.</p>
				</div>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
