<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>BharatiyaSamskritiEnglishCommentary-4</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="BharatiyaSamskritiEnglishCommentary-4" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div id="_idContainer017">
			<h1 id="_idParaDest-4" class="Headline">2. Indian Civilisation and Culture</h1>
			<p class="Body-Text">“Indian civilisation must be judged mainly by the culture and greatness of its millenniums, not by the ignorance and weakness of a few centuries. A culture must be <a id="_idIndexMarker033"></a>judged, first by its essential spirit, then by its best accomplishment and, lastly, by its power of survival, renovation and adaptation to new phases of the permanent needs of the race.”¹</p>
			<p class="commentary">‡ Often we come across criticisms of India and its culture charging that this nation has always been subjugated and downtrodden by foreign invaders and there has always been poverty here. Whatever modern development we now see here is all a gift of the Europeans. Mostly the criticisms we come across of this culture are based exclusively on the period of her decline, inertia and inactivity. But actually, this cannot be the right basis of judging any culture, and certainly is no way of judging a culture as ancient as the Indian. It would be easy for any discerning person to understand that even when describing some great personality we depict his greatness by that period of his life during which he had expressed himself best, and not only by the period of his outworn condition or his old age. A culture that had for millenniums irresistibly and incessantly manifested on a colossal scale in all the spheres of spirit, thought and life, explored new dimensions, opened up untrodden paths in every field for the whole human race, cannot be judged rightly or justly by anyone who concentrates exclusively on its weakness of a few centuries.</p>
			<p class="commentary">But a fundamental question arises that, what after all should be the proper standards for judging a culture? For, if the standards themselves are unsound, then no reasonable outcome can be expected from an evaluation based on these. For instance, if the Indian culture is to be reckoned by its military aggressiveness, its success in warfare against other nations and the triumph of its organised acquisitive and predatory instincts, its irresistible push towards annexation and exploitation, then India would hardly measure up to the standards of greatness, because any such tendency was completely alien to the spirit of her culture. While sharply criticising the use of such confused standards of greatness for judging India, Swami <a id="_idIndexMarker034"></a>Vivekananda says, “It is said – the fittest alone survive. How is it, then, that this most unfitted of all races, according to commonly accepted ideas, could bear the most awful misfortunes that ever befall a race, and yet not show the least signs of decay? How is it that, while the multiplying powers of the so-called vigorous and active races are dwindling every day, the immoral (?) Hindu shows a power of increase beyond them all? Great laurels are due, no doubt, to those who can deluge the world with blood at a moment’s notice; great indeed is the glory of those who, to keep up a population of a few millions in plenty, have to starve half the population of the earth, but is no credit due to those who can keep hundreds of millions in peace and plenty, without snatching the bread from the mouth of anyone else? Is there no power displayed in bringing up and guiding the destinies of countless millions of human beings, through hundreds of centuries, without the least violence to others?”(CWSV 4, 323) </p>
			<p class="commentary">If wealth, opulence and external prosperity are the only benchmarks for the evaluation of a culture, then the fact remains that the splendour of Asia, and particularly the opulence of India, were once stigmatised by the indigent Europe as signs of barbarism. But after a long period of reckless plundering of that wealth when the circumstances were reversed, then that very Europe, taking pride in its plundered wealth, began to declare itself on that very basis to be civilised and developed, and it started deriding as uncivilised, poor and naked the very people whose wealth it had plundered and whose culture it had tried to annihilate in a systematic and motivated manner. The difference in life-values leads to a difference in outlook, and people start judging things according to their own prejudiced outlook. Swami Vivekananda, giving an example of what a great difference there lies between the <a id="_idIndexMarker035"></a>Indian and the European mentality about their own past, says, “Did you ever hear of a country where the greatest kings tried to trace their descent not to kings, not to robber-barons living in old castles who plundered poor travellers, but to semi-naked sages who lived in the forest? Did you ever hear of such a land? This is the land. In other countries great priests try to trace their descent to some king, but here the greatest kings would trace their descent to some ancient priest.”(CWSV 3, 153) </p>
			<p class="commentary">It is clear from all this description that if a culture, especially the Indian culture, is judged on the basis of such prejudices and if the critic happens to be unsympathetic as well as prejudiced, or even more, if he is hostile, then from such a one we can never get that true appraisal of this culture for which Sri Aurobindo provides us the standards here. In order to evaluate a culture we have to first consider its essential spirit or motive. When we go to meet a great personality, before judging him, we need to have a sense of what his fundamental motive is. If a person visits Sri Aurobindo Ashram in Pondicherry, but does not have some sense of what the motive of that place is, what the philosophy of Sri Aurobindo is, what the fundamental aim of the Ashram is, for the realisation of which all the arrangements have been made, then he would only be able to have at best a view of the outer details of the organisation and will describe the place accordingly. Even the description of a unit like Sri Aurobindo Ashram in Pondicherry can be truly meaningful only when a person intimately understands the fundamental motive and the philosophy of Sri Aurobindo and the Mother. A right appreciation, to any extent, even of the outer details of a person, institution, system etc. can be made only in the light of its fundamental motive, purpose, central idea, and not otherwise. And once we know the fundamental motive of a nation, then we will have to consider the amount of effort it has put in the direction of realising that motive, and what are its achievements. If the motive in itself is great, but lacks outer expression or manifestation, or only very meagerly, then this will be a sign of insufficiency or imperfection and such a motive will have to be considered ineffective in practice. Instead, in the earthly manifestation, importance will be given to the nation which, even though having a comparatively less sublime motive, has successfully fulfilled it and with whatever capacity and resources at hand, has made achievements towards that motive. In practice, a motive will be considered to be realistic only to the extent it succeeds in molding itself in practical application. Now, even if a culture possesses both these characteristics, still its perfection will depend on how long it is able to survive. If the essential spirit of some culture is high and it has even made great achievements, but they are short lived, or if the culture lacks the capacity to bear any shock, or has not the necessary power to revive itself from some accident and move forward with renewed vigour, then this will be a sign of its incapacity, weakness and imperfection, and not of any greatness. Such a culture cannot be called an ideal culture. Therefore, a great culture should also have the power of survival and the capacity to bear all shocks triumphantly. Any long lived culture faces difficult times or periods in the course of its development. These periods have their own physical, psychological and spiritual demands, to which the culture has to respond by revealing new forms in the light of its fundamental spirit. If a person, society or culture lacks the power to adapt to the changed times or circumstances, then it will be a sign not only of its inflexibility and rigidity but also an indicator of its demise. In the course of its development, Indian culture has not only had the experience of the profound intuitive golden period of Satya yuga, but has over time also tasted the bitterness of subjection, servitude, inactivity and inertia. But during all these periods, preserving its original motive deep within itself, it has always expressed itself in new forms suitable to the period in question. The occult reason for this has been the constant presence, whether manifest physically or subtly, of the Rishis (seers) which has always upheld and led this nation towards its predestined goal. Moreover, the spirit of this culture has been so strong, all-pervasive and all-inclusive that, assimilating all the changing forms of different times and climes and purifying them in the divine fire that burns in its spiritual heart, it has always been able to shape them anew into forms suited to its spirit.</p>
			<p class="commentary">At present, too, in the course of its evolution mankind is undergoing a stage of <a id="_idIndexMarker036"></a>crisis in which the human mind has achieved an enormous development in certain directions while in others it stands arrested and bewildered, and is trying to find its way. Physical science has put at its disposal many potencies of the universal Force and has made the life of humanity materially one. Humanity has erected such a huge and complex structure of external life for the service of his mental, vital, physical claims and urges that it is becoming unmanageable for his narrow intelligence. This structure is a complex political, social, administrative, economic, cultural machinery which is an organised collective means for his intellectual, sensational, aesthetic and material satisfaction. It is a system of civilisation which is getting ever more difficult to manage for his limited mental capacity and understanding and his still more limited spiritual and moral capacity. Due to man’s individual and communal ego and its ever increasing demands, a sense of apprehension or concern has started to arise in discerning persons that if things continue to follow the same course, then destruction is certain. At such a time, the soul of this culture has proclaimed, through the agency of Sri Aurobindo and the Mother, the descent of the supramental consciousness upon earth and the goal of the realisation of a divine life in a divine body. It is a sign of the remarkable adaptability of this culture that even amidst the most grim of circumstances, it sends forth a new light from its soul which creates new forms suited to the time. </p>
			<p class="commentary">After having set these standards for judging a culture, Sri Aurobindo will now move on to evaluate and reveal how this culture has fully lived up to these standards. ‡</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
