<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>BharatiyaSamskritiEnglishCommentary-38</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="BharatiyaSamskritiEnglishCommentary-38" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-58" class="Subhead1">III. The <a id="_idIndexMarker362"></a>Aryan System of <a id="_idIndexMarker363"></a>Education</h2>
			<p class="Body-Text">“What was the secret of that gigantic intellectuality, spirituality and superhuman moral force which we see pulsating in the Ramayana and Mahabharata, in the ancient philosophy, in the supreme poetry, art, sculpture and architecture of India? What was at the basis of the incomparable public works and engineering achievements, the opulent and exquisite industries, the great triumphs of science, scholarship, jurisprudence, logic, metaphysics, the unique social structure? What supported the heroism and self-abandonment of the Kshatriya, the Sikh and the Rajput, the unconquerable national vitality and endurance? What was it that stood behind that civilisation second to none in the massiveness of its outlines or the perfection of its details? Without a great and unique discipline involving a perfect education of soul and mind, a result so immense and persistent would have been impossible. It would be an error to look for the secret of Aryan success in the details of the instruction given in the old ashrams and universities so far as they have come down to us. We must know what was the principle and basis on which the details were founded. We shall find the secret of their success in a profound knowledge of human psychology and its subtle application to the methods of intellectual training and instruction.”8</p>
			<p class="commentary">‡ Just as in all other fields, the view of ancient Indian culture towards education was inner – deeply psychological and spiritual. It would, therefore, be an error to look for the secret of the phenomenal success of the Aryan system of education in the outer details of the curriculum, setup of the school, educational qualification of the teacher, and so on, which are generally considered to be the chief elements of any education system. Can one develop, by any external means, that prodigious accurate memory of the ancient Indian who could successfully record and pass on through countless generations, without even the slightest inexactitude in any syllable or pronunciation, the Vedas and the colossal amount of other classical Indian literature? No outer schemes, techniques or means of education could have possibly developed those great powers of the ancient Indian spirit and attained to those superlative achievements. We must therefore look for that secret in the profound knowledge of deeper human psychology that could freely make use of all or some of these outer means, and if need be, create entirely new ones suited to its purpose, or even dispense with all possible outer means to act solely through the deeper intuition. </p>
			<p class="commentary">The Aryan system of education has indeed been one of the most profound education systems developed by mankind in the past. But those desirous of replicating the same system in present times must bear in mind that it cannot be replicated in this manner and that the progress of time and the need of humanity demand a new orientation and another form of that ideal more suited to the new demands. The old forms and methods are no longer sufficient for the present purposes of the time-spirit. Besides, the descent of the supramental consciousness and its constant action in the subtle physical plane is actively bringing about a change, even though it is almost imperceptible on the surface, in the whole balance of things. Therefore, we must keep to the essential spirit, but the forms must be more responsive to the present time and circumstances. ‡</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
