<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>BharatiyaSamskritiEnglishCommentary-52</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="BharatiyaSamskritiEnglishCommentary-52" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-72" class="Subhead1">V. The <a id="_idIndexMarker389"></a>Future of India</h2>
			<p class="commentary">‡ After discussing the greatness of the Indian political system, the burning question remains, if prior to foreign invasions and domination the political system was so great then, even so many decades after Independence, why is the situation so distressingly grim and what hope do we have for the future? To understand the background to the question we need to refer to some recent history. When the British fully took over India, they set upon establishing an intermediary race of Indians whom they could entrust with their work at middle and lower levels of government and administration. In the words of <a id="_idIndexMarker390"></a>Macaulay: “We must at present do our best to form a class, who may be interpreters between us and the millions we govern, a class of persons, Indians in blood and colour, but English in taste, in opinions, in morals and in intellects.” (Francois Gautier, India’s Self-Denial, page 43)</p>
			<p class="commentary">Most of our pre-independence leaders belonged to this class and at independence not only the British education system, but the whole of their constitutional, judicial, legal and administrative system was blindly adopted and remains in effect even today virtually unchanged. Our post-independence leaders too, having been educated and groomed under this system, show little or no true appreciation or even understanding of the genius of India – its great culture, its Sanatana – because eternally true – Dharma and its soul. Our leaders of the time believed that with the help of Science, Socialism and Economic Planning and the Indian people’s own government – after seven centuries of most painful subjection to foreign rule – they will be able to take the country to an ideal state superior to anything that might have been achieved in the ancient past. The initial concentration of the economic planning was on the construction of big multipurpose hydroelectric power projects, steel plants, a network of roads, etc. The big steel plants and huge hydroelectric power projects like Bhakhara-Nangal dam were declared to be the true and fitting places of worship for all forward looking spirits in the new India. As minds and hearts were completely shaped by western ways of thinking, Indian culture, being considered parochial, was completely ignored while a slavish mentality looking to the West for everything, brought us to our present sorry plight. It is a fundamental truth that it is never fruitful for an individual to attempt to bypass one’s own calling in order to live according to some other. Similarly, how can we expect positive results if this nation ignores its spiritual culture, its Sanatana Dharma, and tries to mould itself in alien forms.</p>
			<p class="commentary">In present times, India too has sunk into the morass of utilitarianism and in a worst possible way. As a nation, as a society, she seems to have forgotten her deeper well-springs of energy and has become lost in the chaos of conflicting narrow self-interests spiraling her into greater depths of depravation of every kind. A nationalistic pride in the country and her achievements may be the lever to pull her out of this degradation and set her on the road to her true destiny – the intelligent will to live for the spirit not only individually but also collectively. Sri Aurobindo writes at one place, “With us today <a id="_idIndexMarker391"></a>Nationalism is our immediate practical faith and gospel not because it is the highest possible synthesis, but because it must be realised in life if we are to have the chance of realising the others. We must live as a nation before we can live in humanity. It is for this reason that Nationalist thinkers have always urged the necessity of realising our separateness from other nations and living to ourselves for the present, not in order to shut out humanity, but that we may get that individual strength, unity and wholeness which will help us to live as a nation for humanity. A man must be strong and free in himself before he can live usefully for others, so must a nation.” (CWSA 8, 84-85)</p>
			<p class="commentary">However, we must not forget that, though nationalism may be the need of the hour, it is but one state of the highest spirit and has to be transcended to achieve the goal towards which the Soul of India has been striving – the greater and greater revelation and manifestation of the Spirit in terrestrial nature. Because, “There are deeper issues for India herself, since by following certain tempting directions she may conceivably become a nation like many others evolving an opulent industry and commerce, a powerful organisation of social and political life, an immense military strength, practising power-politics with a high degree of success, guarding and extending zealously her gains and her interests, dominating even a large part of the world, but in this apparently magnificent progression forfeiting its Swadharma, losing its soul. Then ancient India and her spirit might disappear altogether and we would have only one more nation like the others and that would be a real gain neither to the world nor to us... It would be a tragic irony of fate if India were to throw away her spiritual heritage at the very moment when in the rest of the world there is more and more a turning towards her for spiritual help and a saving Light. This must not and will surely not happen; but it cannot be said that the danger is not there.” (CWSA 36, 503-04)</p>
			<p class="commentary">To avoid the dangers elaborated by Sri Aurobindo above, the Indian renaissance has three tasks before it. In the words of Sri Aurobindo, “The recovery of the old spiritual knowledge and experience in all its splendour, depth and fullness is its first, most essential work; the flowing of this spirituality into new forms of philosophy, literature, art, science and critical knowledge is the second; an original dealing with modern problems in the light of the Indian spirit and the endeavour to formulate a greater synthesis of a spiritualised society is the third and most difficult. Its success on these three lines will be the measure of its help to the future of humanity.” (CWSA 20: 15)</p>
			<p class="commentary">Among the above, the first has been largely completed by Sri <a id="_idIndexMarker392"></a>Ramakrishna-Vivekananda and Sri Aurobindo. The second has also been partially accomplished but a lot has still to be done. It seems that there has not even been a thought about the third, because it has not even been clearly articulated by anyone except Sri Aurobindo. That is why at the root of all our problems is the fact that light of the Soul of India has been so buried under the dust of the glitz of western culture that, instead of trying to find a solution to the dire difficulties we face in the sun that is the Soul of India, we turn towards the flicker of western materialism. We conclude this book with the inspiring words of Swami <a id="_idIndexMarker393"></a>Vivekananda.</p>
			<p class="commentary">“There are <a id="_idIndexMarker394"></a>two great obstacles on our path in India, the Scylla of old orthodoxy and the Charybdis of modern European civilisation. Of these two, I vote for the old orthodoxy, and not for the Europeanised system; for the old orthodox man may be ignorant, he may be crude, but he is a man, he has a faith, he has strength, he stands on his own feet; while the Europeanised man has no backbone, he is a mass of heterogeneous ideas picked up at random from every source — and these ideas are unassimilated, undigested, unharmonised. He does not stand on his own feet, and his head is turning round and round. Where is the motive power of his work? — in a few patronizing pats from the English people. His schemes of reforms, his vehement vituperations against the evils of certain social customs, have, as the mainspring, some European patronage. Why are some of our customs called evils? Because the Europeans say so. That is about the reason he gives. I would not submit to that. Stand and die in your own strength, if there is any sin in the world, it is weakness; avoid all weakness, for weakness is sin, weakness is <a id="_idIndexMarker395"></a>death. These unbalanced creatures are not yet formed into distinct personalities; what are we to call them — men, women, or animals? While those old orthodox people were staunch and were men.…</p>
			<p class="commentary">The secret of a true Hindu’s character lies in the subordination of his knowledge of European sciences and learning, of his wealth, position, and name, to that one principal theme which is inborn in every Hindu child — the spirituality and purity of the race. Therefore between these two, the case of the orthodox man who has the whole of that life-spring of the race, spirituality, and the other man whose hands are full of Western imitation jewels but has no hold on the life-giving principle, spirituality — of these, I do not doubt that every one here will agree that we should choose the first, the orthodox, because there is some hope in him — he has the national theme, something to hold to; so he will live, but the other will die. Just as in the case of individuals, if the principle of life is undisturbed, if the principal function of that individual life is present, any injuries received as regards other functions are not serious, do not kill the individual, so, as long as this principal function of our life is not disturbed, nothing can destroy our nation. But mark you, if you give up that spirituality, leaving it aside to go after the materialising civilisation of the West, the result will be that in three generations you will be an extinct race; because the backbone of the nation will be broken, the foundation upon which the national edifice has been built will be undermined, and the result will be annihilation all round.” (CWSV 3: 151-53)</p>
			<p class="commentary">“…the <a id="_idIndexMarker396"></a>way out is that first and foremost we must keep a firm hold on spirituality — that inestimable gift handed down to us by our ancient forefathers. Did you ever hear of a country where the greatest kings tried to trace their descent not to kings, not to robber-barons living in old castles who plundered poor travellers, but to semi-naked sages who lived in the forest? Did you ever hear of such a land? This is the land. In other countries great priests try to trace their descent to some king, but here the greatest kings would trace their descent to some ancient priest. Therefore, whether you believe in spirituality or not, for the sake of the national life, you have to get a hold on spirituality and keep to it. Then stretch the other hand out and gain all you can from other races, but everything must be subordinated to that one ideal of life; and out of that a wonderful, glorious, future India will come — I am sure it is coming — a greater India than ever was. Sages will spring up greater than all the ancient sages; and your ancestors will not only be satisfied, but I am sure, they will be proud from their positions in other worlds to look down upon their descendants, so glorious, and so great.</p>
			<p class="commentary">Let us all work hard, my brethren; this is no time for sleep. On our work depends the coming of the India of the future. She is there ready waiting. She is only sleeping. Arise and awake and see her seated here on her eternal throne, rejuvenated, more glorious than she ever was — this motherland of ours. The idea of God was nowhere else ever so fully developed as in this motherland of ours, for the same idea of God never existed anywhere else. Perhaps you are astonished at my assertion; but show me any idea of God from any other scripture equal to ours; they have only clan-Gods, the God of the Jews, the God of the Arabs, and of such and such a race, and their God is fighting the Gods of the other races. But the idea of that beneficent, most merciful God, our father, our mother, our friend, the friend of our friends, the soul of our souls, is here and here alone. And may He who is the Shiva of the Shaivites, the Vishnu of the Vaishnavites, the Karma of the Karmis, the Buddha of the Buddhists, the Jina of the Jains, the Jehovah of the Christians and the Jews, the Allah of the Mohammedans, the Lord of every sect, the Brahman of the Vedantists, He the all-pervading, whose glory has been known only in this land — may He bless us, may He help us, may He give strength unto us, energy unto us, to carry this idea into practice. May that which we have listened to and studied become food to us, may it become strength in us, may it become energy in us to help each other; may we, the teacher and the taught, not be jealous of each other! Peace, peace, peace, in the name of Hari!” (CWSV 3: 153-54)</p>
			<p class="commentary">“Let them talk of India’s regeneration as they like. Let me tell you as one who has been working — at least trying to work — all his life, that there is no regeneration for India until you be spiritual. Not only so, but upon it depends the welfare of the whole world. For I must tell you frankly that the very foundations of Western civilisation have been shaken to their base. The mightiest buildings, if built upon the loose sand foundations of materialism, must come to grief one day, must totter to their destruction some day. The history of the world is our witness. Nation after nation has arisen and based its greatness upon materialism, declaring man was all matter. Ay, in Western language, a man gives up the ghost, but in our language a man gives up his body. The Western man is a body first, and then he has a soul; with us a man is a soul and spirit, and he has a body. Therein lies a world of difference. All such civilisations, therefore, as have been based upon such sand foundations as material comfort and all that, have disappeared one after another, after short lives, from the face of the world; but the civilisation of India and the other nations that have stood at India’s feet to listen and learn, namely, Japan and China, live even to the present day, and there are signs even of revival among them. Their lives are like that of the Phoenix, a thousand times destroyed, but ready to spring up again more glorious. But a materialistic civilisation once dashed down, never can come up again; that building once thrown down is broken into pieces once for all. Therefore have patience and wait, the future is in store for us.</p>
			<p class="commentary">Do not be in a hurry, do not go out to imitate anybody else. This is another great lesson we have to remember; imitation is not civilisation. I may deck myself out in a Raja’s dress, but will that make me a Raja? An ass in a lion’s skin never makes a lion. Imitation, cowardly imitation, never makes for progress. It is verily the sign of awful degradation in a man. Ay, when a man has begun to hate himself, then the last blow has come. When a man has begun to be ashamed of his ancestors, the end has come. Here am I, one of the least of the Hindu race, yet proud of my race, proud of my ancestors. I am proud to call myself a Hindu, I am proud that I am one of your unworthy servants. I am proud that I am a countryman of yours, you the descendants of the sages, you the descendants of the most glorious Rishis the world ever saw. Therefore have faith in yourselves, be proud of your ancestors, instead of being ashamed of them. And do not imitate, do not imitate! Whenever you are under the thumb of others, you lose your own independence. If you are working, even in spiritual things, at the dictation of others, slowly you lose all faculty, even of thought. Bring out through your own exertions what you have, but do not imitate, yet take what is good from others. We have to learn from others. You put the seed in the ground, and give it plenty of earth, and air, and water to feed upon; when the seed grows into the plant and into a gigantic tree, does it become the earth, does it become the air, or does it become the water? It becomes the mighty plant, the mighty tree, after its own nature, having absorbed everything that was given to it. Let that be your position. We have indeed many things to learn from others, yea, that man who refuses to learn is already dead.” (CWSV 3: 380-81) ‡</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">References: </p>
			<p class="Body-Text">1. &#9;CWSA 7: 943</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">2. &#9;CWSA 20: 384-87</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">3. &#9;CWSA 20: 391-95</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">4. &#9;CWSA 20: 425-26</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">5. &#9;CWSA 20: 426-27</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">6. &#9;CWSA 20: 427-28</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">7. &#9;CWSA 20: 429-30</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">8. &#9;CWSA 20: 430-31</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">9. &#9;CWSA 20: 431-32</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">10.&#9;CWSA 20: 432-33</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">11. CWSA 20: 434-36</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">12. CWSA 20: 436-37</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">13. CWSA 20: 441-42</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">CWM: Collected Works of the Mother, Sri Aurobindo Ashram Trust 1978, Puducherry, Second Edition 2004</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">CWSA: Complete Works of Sri Aurobindo, Sri Aurobindo Ashram Trust, Puducherry</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">CWSV: Complete Works of Swami Vivekananda, Mayavati Memorial Edition, Published by Advaita Ashram, Kolkata.</p>
		</div>
		<div class="_idGenObjectLayout-1">
			<div id="_idContainer026">
			</div>
		</div>
		<div class="_idGenObjectLayout-1">
			<div id="_idContainer027">
			</div>
		</div>
		<div class="_idGenObjectLayout-1">
			<div id="_idContainer028" class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
