<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>BharatiyaSamskritiEnglishCommentary-13</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="BharatiyaSamskritiEnglishCommentary-13" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h3 id="_idParaDest-17" class="Subhead2">B. The High Value and Soundness of the <a id="_idIndexMarker195"></a>Indian Conception of Life</h3>
			<p class="Body-Text">The value of the Indian conception of life must depend on the power and effectivity with which it connects its high conception and the distant perfection aimed at with man’s normal living and present every day nature. “Put over against the latter without any connection or any gradations that lead up to it and make it possible, it would either be a high unattainable ideal or the detached remote passion of a few exceptional spirits. Or even it would discourage the springs of our natural life by the too great contrast between this spiritual being and our own poor imperfect nature. Something of the kind has happened in later times; the current Western impression about the exaggerated <a id="_idIndexMarker196"></a>asceticism and <a id="_idIndexMarker197"></a>other-worldliness of Indian religion and philosophy is founded on the growing gulf created by a later thought between man’s spiritual possibilities and his terrestrial status. But we must not be misled by extreme tendencies or the overemphasis put upon them in a period of decline. If we would get at the real meaning of the Indian idea of life, we must go back to its best times. And we must not look at this or that school of philosophy or at some side of it as the whole of Indian thought; the totality of the ancient philosophical thinking, religion, literature, art, society must be our ground of enquiry. The Indian conception in its early soundness made no such mistake as to imagine that this great thing can or even ought to be done by some violent, intolerant, immediate leap from one pole of existence to its opposite. Even the most extreme philosophies do not go so far. The workings of the Spirit in the universe were a reality to one side of the Indian mind, to another only a half reality, a self-descriptive Lila or illusory Maya. To the one the world was an action of the Infinite Energy, Shakti, to the other a figment of some secondary paradoxical consciousness in the Eternal, Maya: but life as an intermediate reality was never denied by any school of Indian thinking. Indian thought recognised that the normal life of man has to be passed through with a conscientious endeavour to fulfil its purpose: its powers must be developed with knowledge; its forms must be perused, interpreted and fathomed; its values must be worked out, possessed and lived; its enjoyments must be fully taken on their own level. Only afterwards can we go on to self-existence or a supra-existence. The spiritual perfection which opens before man is the crown of a long, patient, millennial outflowering of the spirit in life and nature. This belief in a gradual spiritual progress and evolution here is indeed the secret of the almost universal Indian acceptance of the truth of reincarnation. It is only by millions of lives in inferior forms that the secret soul in the universe, conscious even in the inconscient, cetano acetaneṣu, has arrived at humanity: it is only by hundreds or thousands, perhaps even millions of human lives that man can grow into his divine self-existence. Every life is a step which he can take backward or forward; his action in life, his will in life, his thought and knowledge by which he governs and directs his life, determine what he is yet to be from the earliest stages to the last transcendence. Yathā karma yathā śrutam.</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">This belief in a gradual soul evolution with a final perfection or divine transcendence and human life as its first direct means and often repeated opportunity, is the pivot of the Indian conception of existence. This gives to our life the figure of an ascent in spirals or circles; and the long period of the ascent has to be filled in with human knowledge and human action and human experience. There is room within it for all terrestrial aims, activities and aspirations; there is place in the ascent for all types of human character and nature. For the spirit in the world assumes hundreds of forms and follows many tendencies and gives many shapes to his play or līlā. All are part of the total mass of our necessary experience; each has its justification, each has its natural or true law and reason of being, each has its utility in the play and the process. The <a id="_idIndexMarker198"></a>claim of sense satisfaction was not ignored, it was given its just importance. The soul’s need of labour and heroic action was not stifled, it was urged to its fullest action and freest scope. The hundred forms of the pursuit of knowledge were given an absolute freedom of movement; the play of the emotions was allowed, refined, trained till they were fit for the divine levels; the demand of the aesthetic faculties was encouraged in its highest rarest forms and in life’s commonest details. Indian culture did not deface nor impoverish the richness of the grand game of human life; it never depressed or mutilated the activities of our nature. On the contrary, subject to a certain principle of harmony and government, it allowed them their full, often their extreme value. Man was allowed to fathom on his way all experience, to give to his character and action a large rein and heroic proportions, and to fill in life opulently with colour and beauty and enjoyment. This life side of the Indian idea is stamped in strong relief over the epic and the classical literature. It is amazing indeed that anyone with an eye or a brain could have read the Ramayana, Mahabharata, the dramas, the literary epics, the romances, and the great abundance of gnomic and lyric poetry in Sanskrit and in the later tongues (to say nothing of the massive remains of other cultural work and social and political system and speculation), and yet failed to perceive this breadth, wealth and greatness. One must have read without eyes to see or without a mind to understand; most indeed of the adverse critics have not read or studied at all, but only flung about their preconceived notions with a violent or a high-browed ignorant assurance.</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">But while it is the generous office of culture to enrich, enlarge and encourage human life, it must also give the vital forces a guiding law, subject them to some moral and rational government and lead them beyond their first natural formulations, until it can find for life the clue to a spiritual freedom, perfection and greatness. The preeminent value of the ancient Indian civilisation lay in the power with which it did this work, the profound wisdom and high and subtle skill with which it based society and ordered the individual life, and encouraged and guided the propensities of human nature and finally turned them all towards the realisation of its master idea. The mind it was training, while not called away from its immediate aims, was never allowed to lose sight of the use of life as a discipline for spiritual perfection and a passage to the Infinite.”28</p>
			<p class="commentary">‡ The value of an aim, however high in itself, must depend on its power to effectuate itself in practical life, without which it would be considered impracticable and remain ineffective in practice. Therefore, had the Indian conception of life been of such a limited and ineffective kind, or had it been something remote and unattainable for the human capability, it could not have persisted and survived for such a long time. According to Sri Aurobindo, even when for some two thousand years at least no Indian has been really able to understand the Vedas, they have persisted and their influence has remained intact, and to this day they continue to be the bedrock of this culture. The Puranic literature – and taking for instance only two of them, the Bhagawat Mahapurana with the stories and pastimes of Lord Krishna, and the Markandeya Purana dedicated to Goddess Durga – seem to the present day modern mentality, coloured by Western rationalism, as utterly fanciful, unrealistic, and exaggerated. But a question that must arise in any reflecting intelligence is how then could writings so unintelligible and chimerical have succeeded in exercising such a deep and pervasive influence – that continues to grow even today – not only over the thought and life of the people of this culture but even on those nations that feel proud to present themselves as developed, rational and free from any superstitious beliefs. It is the same with the influence of the tantras and other Indian yoga systems. All these various systems and ways are, as it were, such infinite dimensions opened by the Indian culture to assist all the various parts of the being to come in contact with the Divine, to get a living experience of the truth of one’s being. The soundness and the all-pervasiveness of the Indian conception of life is established by the fact that it was not just some high ideal in the air with nothing much to do with the actual life of its people but was so intimately bound up with each and every thought and act of individuals and collectivities that even the most ordinary man was able to have a deep perception of the purpose of life and an urge to move towards it. We find a vivid and moving description of how the Indian culture succeeded in effectively connecting its high conception of life with an ordinary man’s actual life and nature in <a id="_idIndexMarker199"></a>Rabindranath <a id="_idIndexMarker200"></a>Tagore’s presidential address to the first session of the Indian Philosophical Congress held in 1925. We present here an excerpt from the same. “As in the world of art, so in God’s world, our soul waits for its freedom from the ego to reach that disinterested joy which is the source and goal of creation. It cries for its mukti into the unity of truth from the mirage of appearances endlessly pursued by the thirsty self. This idea of mukti, based upon metaphysics, has affected our life in India, touched the springs of our emotions and supplications for it soar heavenward on the wings of poesy. We constantly hear men of scanty learning and simple faith singing in their prayer to Tara, the Goddess Redeemer: </p>
			<p class="commentary">For what sin should I be compelled to remain in this dungeon of the world of appearances?</p>
			<p class="commentary">They are afraid of being alienated from the world of truth, afraid of their perpetual drifting amidst the froth and foam of things, of being tossed about by the tidal waves of pleasure and pain and never reaching the ultimate meaning of life. Of these men, one may be a carter driving his cart to market, another a fisherman plying his net. They may not be prompt with an intelligent answer, if questioned about the deeper import of the song they sing, but they have no doubt in their mind, that the abiding cause of all misery is not so much in the lack of life’s furniture as in the obscurity of life’s significance. It is a common topic with such to decry an undue emphasis upon me and mine, which falsifies the perspective of truth. For, have they not often seen men, who are not above their own level in social position or intellectual acquirement, going out to seek Truth, leaving everything that they have behind them?</p>
			<p class="commentary">They know that the object of these adventurers is not betterment in worldly wealth and power, — it is mukti, freedom. They possibly know some poor fellow villager of their own craft, who remains in the world carrying on his daily vocation, and yet has the reputation of being emancipated in the heart of the Eternal. I myself have come across a fisherman singing with an inward absorption of mind, while fishing all day in the Ganges, who was pointed out to me by my boatmen, with awe, as a man of liberated spirit. He is out of reach of the conventional prices which are set upon men by society, and which classify them like toys arranged in the shop-windows according to the market standard of value.</p>
			<p class="commentary">When the figure of this fisherman comes to my mind, I cannot but think that their number is not small who with their lives sing the epic of the unfettered soul, but will never be known in history. These unsophisticated Indian peasants know that an Emperor is a decorated slave remaining chained to his Empire, that a millionaire is kept pilloried by his fate in the golden cage of his wealth, while this fisherman is free in the realm of light. When, groping in the dark, we stumble against objects, we cling to them believing them to be our only hope. When light comes we slacken our hold, finding them to be mere parts of the all to which we are related. The simple man of the village knows what freedom is – freedom from the isolation of self, from the isolation of things which imparts a fierce intensity to our sense of possession. He knows that this freedom is not in the mere negation of bondage, in the bareness of belongings, but in some positive realisation which gives pure joy to our being…” (Mother India, Nov. 2003 issue, p. 947-48, Publisher: Sri Aurobindo Ashram, Pondicherry) </p>
			<p class="commentary">Shedding light on how this culture could remarkably succeed in such a formidable task of impressing its high ideals on the hearts of its people, he says: “All this is owing to the wonderful system of mass education which has prevailed for ages in India, and which today is in danger of becoming extinct. We have our academic seats of learning where students flock round their famous teachers from distant parts of the country. These places are like lakes, full of deep but still water, which have to be approached through difficult paths. But the constant evaporation from them, forming clouds, is carried by the wind from field to field, across hills and dales and through all the different divisions of the land. Operas based upon legendary poems, recitations and storytelling by trained men, the lyrical wealth of the popular literature distributed far and wide by the agency of mendicant singers, – these are the clouds that help to irrigate the minds of the people with the ideas which in their original form belonged to difficult doctrines of metaphysics. Profound speculations contained in the systems of Sankhya, Vedanta and Yoga are transformed into the living harvest of the people’s literature, brought to the door of those who can never have the leisure and training to pursue these thoughts to their fountainhead.</p>
			<p class="commentary">In order to enable a civilized community to carry on its complex functions, there must be a large number of men who have to take charge of its material needs, however onerous such task may be. Their vocation gives them no opportunity to cultivate their mind. Yet they form the vast multitude, compelled to turn themselves into unthinking machines of production, so that a few may have the time to think great thoughts, create immortal forms of art and to lead humanity to spiritual altitudes.</p>
			<p class="commentary">India has never neglected these social martyrs, but has tried to bring light into the grim obscurity of their life-long toil, and has always acknowledged its duty to supply them with mental and spiritual food in assimilable form through the medium of a variety of ceremonies. This process is not carried on by any specially organized association of public service, but by a spontaneous social adjustment which acts like circulation of blood in our bodily system. Because of this, the work continues even when the original purpose ceases to exist.</p>
			<p class="commentary">Once when I was on a visit to a small Bengal village, mostly inhabited by Mahomedan cultivators, the villagers entertained me with an opera performance the literature of which belonged to an obsolete religious sect that had wide influence centuries ago. Though the religion itself is dead, its voice still continues preaching its philosophy to a people who in spite of their different culture are not tired of listening. It discussed according to its own doctrine the different elements, material and transcendental, that constitute human personality, comprehending the body, the self and the soul. Then came a dialogue during the course of which was related the incident of a person who wanted to make a journey to Brindavan, the Garden of Bliss, but was prevented by a watchman who startled him with an accusation of theft. The thieving was proved when it was shown that inside his clothes he was secretly trying to smuggle into the garden the self, passing it on as his own and not admitting that it is for his master. The culprit was caught with the incriminating bundle in his possession which barred for him his passage to the supreme goal. Under a tattered canopy held on bamboo poles and lighted by a few smoking kerosene lamps, the village crowd, occasionally interrupted by howls of jackals in the neighbouring paddy fields, attended with untired interest, till the small hours of the morning, the performance of a drama, that discussed the ultimate meaning of all things in a seemingly incongruous setting of dance, music and humorous dialogue.</p>
			<p class="commentary">These illustrations will show how naturally, in India, poetry and philosophy have walked hand in hand, only because the latter has claimed its right to guide men to the practical path of their life’s fulfilment. What is that fulfilment? It is our freedom in truth, which has for its prayer</p>
			<p class="commentary">Lead us from the unreal to Reality.” (Mother India, Oct. 2003 issue, p. 818-19, Publisher: Sri Aurobindo Ashram, Pondicherry) </p>
			<p class="commentary">This description is sufficient to give us a glimpse of how each and every thought and act of the people had been guided by the great life-motives of the Indian culture.‡</p>
			<h4 id="_idParaDest-18" class="Subhead3">(i) The Two Main Truths of <a id="_idIndexMarker201"></a>Human Existence</h4>
			<p class="Body-Text">The Indian mind kept always in sight two main truths of existence. First, man’s being in its growth has stages through which it must pass. Second, life is complex and the nature of man is also complex; “...in each life man has to figure a certain sum of its complexity and put that into some kind of order. But the initial movement of life is that form of it which develops the powers of the natural ego in man; self-interest and hedonistic desire are the original human motives, – <a id="_idIndexMarker202"></a>kāma, <a id="_idIndexMarker203"></a>artha. Indian culture gave a large recognition to this primary turn of our nature. These powers have to be accepted and put in order; for the natural ego-life must be lived and the forces it evolves in the human being must be brought to fullness. But this element must be kept from making any too unbridled claim or heading furiously towards its satisfaction; only so can it get its full results without disaster and only so can it be inspired eventually to go beyond itself and turn in the end to a greater spiritual Good and Bliss. An internal or external anarchy cannot be the rule; a life governed in any absolute or excessive degree by self-will, passion, sense-attraction, self-interest and desire cannot be the natural whole of a human or a humane existence. The tempting imagination that it can and that this is the true law is a lure with which the Western mind has played in characteristic leanings or outbursts; but this turn unjustly called <a id="_idIndexMarker204"></a>Paganism, – for the Greek or Pagan intelligence had a noble thought for law and harmony and self-rule, – is alien to the Indian spirit. India has felt the call of the senses not less than Greece, Rome or modern Europe; she perceived very well the possibility of a materialistic life and its attraction worked on certain minds and gave birth to the philosophy of the <a id="_idIndexMarker205"></a>Charvakas: but this could not take full hold or establish even for a time any dominant empire. Even if we can see in it, when lived on a grand scale, a certain perverse greatness, still a colossal egoism indulgent of the sole life of the mind and the senses was regarded by her as the nature of the Asura and Rakshasa. It is the Titanic, gigantic or demoniac type of spirit, permitted in its own plane, but not the proper law for a human life. Another power claims man and overtops desire and self-interest and self-will, the power of the Dharma.”29</p>
			<p class="commentary">‡ To understand the significance and true place of <a id="_idIndexMarker206"></a>desire (<a id="_idIndexMarker207"></a>kāma) and artha (self-interest) in human existence, we have to turn to the fundamental idea of the Indian culture which holds that the One Sole Reality constitutes all that there is, all existence is the existence of the one Eternal and Infinite – <a id="_idIndexMarker208"></a>Ekamevadvitiyam, – there is the One without a second and there can be nothing else at any time or anywhere. The whole effort of the terrestrial creation seems to be to progressively manifest that Sole Reality. The unfolding in this terrestrial <a id="_idIndexMarker209"></a>evolutionary Nature has a double process: there is an outward visible process of physical evolution with birth as its machinery and there is an invisible process of soul evolution. Due to its emerging out of the Subconscience and the Nescience, there is in this evolution a constant <a id="_idIndexMarker210"></a>downward pull of gravitation towards the original Inertia and Nescience which tries to dissolve all the formations that life and mind build, swallow all things and disintegrate them into the original matter. To counter this downward pull and provide a secure basis for the evolution of increasingly complex physical forms capable of housing ever higher and greater levels of consciousness, the first impulse of nature has been towards establishing firmly the principle of life in this terrestrial evolution. Therefore, for the maintenance and perpetuation of life and also to tread the hard ground of Matter – for, without it there would be no manifestation possible – nature deeply implants <a id="_idIndexMarker211"></a>fear and <a id="_idIndexMarker212"></a>desire. Had this deep-rooted element of desire – which blindly seeks its own satisfaction in the form of various physical and vital hungers, cravings and lusts – not been there, it would hardly have been possible to carry out smoothly even those basic acts of ingestion, procreation, and various others so indispensable for the survival of life and, therefore, there would be no secure basis left for the life to establish itself in the terrestrial conditions. Besides, there is a yet deeper and fundamental reason behind desire and <a id="_idIndexMarker213"></a>self-interest. In the truth of its being, the Sole Reality is a completely unified consciousness but for it to be able to express itself in an innumerable multitude, a sense of separate existence is imperative. Therefore, according to the <a id="_idIndexMarker214"></a>Sankhya philosophy, the first fundamental principle that initiates this whole phenomenal creation, is the divisional principle, <a id="_idIndexMarker215"></a>Ahankara, the sense of a separate self-existence. But this sense of self and non-self brings with it the fear of losing one’s separate self, and therefore, a spontaneous urge to appropriate and possess things for one’s own self. This sense of a separate self carries with it a sense of insufficiency and gives rise to desire. In its long process of evolving ever more complex types and forms for a firm foundation of life, Nature, with the appearance of man, the mental being, seems for the first time to have reached a stage where conscious volition comes into play. It is only at the level of human consciousness that the infinite possibilities of a conscious evolution are unveiled.</p>
			<p class="commentary">At present we can see how the entire <a id="_idIndexMarker216"></a>materialistic culture of the West, including its physical science, is grossly centered around the satisfaction of the hedonistic and egoistic parts of the being. This exclusive concentration on the ego beyond a point – after its significant role in developing an individual personality is over – becomes a hindrance in our progress. If left unbridled, without subjecting it to some higher discipline, it could hardly escape the stumbles or even the disasters which so often accompany any excessively egoistic pursuits. For, the forces working behind ego, desire, selfishness, etc. always impel one to turn back upon oneself and ignore the aspect of collectivity. Even if one accepts the collectivity, it is only as an aggrandized form of one’s small ego and as a means for one’s enlarged satisfaction. But there could be no success for an orchestra in which individual musicians played according to their own fancy and refused to follow the directions of the conductor. Therefore, just as even while being under the strict discipline of an experienced master, a disciple gets the fullest possible chance to grow freely and learns even by making his own experiments and mistakes, the Indian culture, tried to cultivate, refine, and turn even the hedonistic and egoistic parts godwards by giving them their due chance of expression and fulfilment while keeping them under the yoke of its high fundamental motive. For, the Indian culture knew that the strictness of training, the habit of discipline and obedience is not inconsistent with freedom; rather it is often the necessary condition for its right use. Thus, the whole movement of the Indian culture has been towards transmuting all the various parts of the being – not by suppression, but by proper cultivation in the light of its highest ideal – into effective instruments of the soul for its self-expression. ‡</p>
			<h4 id="_idParaDest-19" class="Subhead3">(ii) The Workings of <a id="_idIndexMarker217"></a>Dharma – the Religious Law of Action and the Deepest Law of Our Nature</h4>
			<p class="Body-Text">In the Indian conception, Dharma, “...is not, as in the Western idea, a creed, cult or ideal inspiring an ethical and social rule; it is the right law of functioning of our life in all its parts. The tendency of man to seek after a just and perfect law of his living finds its truth and its justification in the Dharma. Every thing indeed has its dharma, its law of life imposed on it by its nature; but for man the dharma is the conscious imposition of a rule of ideal living on all his members. Dharma is fixed in its essence, but still it develops in our consciousness and evolves and has its stages; there are gradations of spiritual and ethical ascension in the search for the highest law of our nature. All men cannot follow in all things one common and invariable rule. Life is too complex to admit of the arbitrary ideal simplicity which the moralising theorist loves. Natures differ; the position, the work we have to do has its own claims and standards; the aim and bent, the call of life, the call of the spirit within is not the same for everyone: the degree and turn of development and the capacity, <a id="_idIndexMarker218"></a>adhikāra, are not equal. Man lives in society and by society, and every society has its own general dharma, and the <a id="_idIndexMarker219"></a>individual life must be fitted into this wider law of movement. But there too the individual’s part in society and his nature and the needs of his capacity and temperament vary and have many kinds and degrees: the social law must make some room for this variety and would lose by being rigidly one for all. The man of knowledge, the man of power, the productive and acquisitive man, the priest, scholar, poet, artist, ruler, fighter, trader, tiller of the soil, craftsman, labourer, servant cannot usefully have the same training, cannot be shaped in the same pattern, cannot all follow the same way of living. All ought not to be put under the same tables of the law; for that would be a senseless geometric rigidity that would spoil the plastic truth of life. Each has his type of nature and there must be a rule for the perfection of that type; each has his own proper function and there must be a canon and ideal for the function. There must be in all things some wise and understanding standard of practice and idea of perfection and living rule, – that is the one thing needful for the Dharma. A lawless impulsion of desire and interest and propensity cannot be allowed to lead human conduct; even in the frankest following of desire and interest and propensity there must be a governing and restraining and directing line, a guidance. There must be an ethic or a science, a restraint as well as a scope arising from the truth of the thing sought, a standard of perfection, an order. Differing with the type of the man and the type of the function these special dharmas would yet rise towards the greater law and truth that contains and overtops the others and is universally effective. This then was the Dharma, special for the special person, stage of development, pursuit of life or individual field of action, but universal too in the broad lines which all ought to pursue.</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">The universal embracing dharma in the Indian idea is a law of ideal perfection for the developing mind and soul of man; it compels him to grow in the power and force of certain high or large universal qualities which in their harmony build a highest type of manhood. In Indian thought and life this was the ideal of the best, the law of the good or noble man, the discipline laid down for the self-perfecting individual, ārya, <a id="_idIndexMarker220"></a>śreṣṭha, <a id="_idIndexMarker221"></a>sajjana, <a id="_idIndexMarker222"></a>sādhu. This ideal was not a purely moral or ethical conception, although that element might predominate; it was also intellectual, religious, social, aesthetic, the flowering of the whole ideal man, the perfection of the total human nature. The most varied qualities met in the Indian conception of the best, śreṣṭha, the good and noble man, <a id="_idIndexMarker223"></a>ārya. In the heart benevolence, beneficence, love, compassion, altruism, long-suffering, liberality, kindliness, patience; in the character courage, heroism, energy, loyalty, continence, truth, honour, justice, faith, obedience and reverence where these were due, but power too to govern and direct, a fine modesty and yet a strong independence and noble pride; in the mind wisdom and intelligence and love of learning, knowledge of all the best thought, an openness to poetry, art and beauty, an educated capacity and skill in works; in the inner being a strong religious sense, piety, love of God, seeking after the Highest, the spiritual turn; in social relations and conduct a strict observance of all the social dharmas, as father, son, husband, brother, kinsman, friend, ruler or subject, master or servant, priest or warrior or worker, king or sage, member of clan or caste: this was the total ideal of the Arya, the man of high upbringing and noble nature. The ideal is clearly portrayed in the written records of ancient India during two millenniums and it is the very life-breath of Hindu ethics. It was the creation of an at once ideal and rational mind, spirit-wise and worldly-wise, deeply religious, nobly ethical, firmly yet flexibly intellectual, scientific and aesthetic, patient and tolerant of life’s difficulties and human weakness, but arduous in self-discipline. This was the mind that was at the base of the Indian civilisation and gave its characteristic stamp to all the culture.”30</p>
			<p class="commentary">‡ What after all is <a id="_idIndexMarker224"></a>dharma, what is its true nature and its determining factors? It is evident that each thing or element in nature has its particular properties and characteristics. Accordingly, there is a right way of dealing with it, which grows more complex with the evolution of ever more advanced and complex forms in nature. The fundamental change in the evolution with the coming of man is the development of the faculty of self-observation, with the help of which man discovers that he is comprised of various parts – ranging from the most material and objective to the most subtle and subjective – each of which contributes something to the total movement of his consciousness, thought, will, sensation, feeling, and action. Therefore, the dharma or the rule of ideal living for an individual can be effectively laid down only by taking into account the stage of his own inner and outer development as well as of those collectivities of which he is a part. Meditating upon the particularity with which the Indian culture laid down the detailed dharmas for each and everything, not only gives us a deeper insight into the fundamental structure of this culture but helps us to grow even more conscious of the truths of our own being and its working.</p>
			<p class="commentary">Firstly, the mission of this culture has been to purge barbarism (mlecchahood) out of the natural man and Aryanise him. ‘<a id="_idIndexMarker225"></a>Mleccha’ is one who regards the fulfilment of his desire and self-interest to be the sole purpose of life and, therefore, his life is indiscriminately devoted to the gratification of his physical and vital propensities. He is preoccupied solely with devising ever more efficient systems for arranging all the resources and energies at hand so as to get the maximum possible opportunities of satisfying his animalistic and egoistic tendencies. As opposed to this, according to Sri Aurobindo, “The <a id="_idIndexMarker226"></a>Aryan is he who strives and overcomes all outside him and within him that stands opposed to the human advance. Self-conquest is the first law of his nature. He overcomes earth and the body and does not consent like ordinary men to their dullness, inertia, dead routine and tamasic limitations. He overcomes life and its energies and refuses to be dominated by their hungers and cravings or enslaved by their rajasic passions. He overcomes the mind and its habits, he does not live in a shell of ignorance, inherited prejudices, customary ideas, pleasant opinions, but knows how to seek and choose, to be large and flexible in intelligence even as he is firm and strong in his will. For in everything he seeks truth, in everything right, in everything height and freedom.</p>
			<p class="commentary">Self-perfection is the aim of his self-conquest. Therefore what he conquers he does not destroy, but ennobles and fulfils. He knows that the body, life and mind are given him in order to attain to something higher than they; therefore they must be transcended and overcome, their limitations denied, the absorption of their gratifications rejected. But he knows also that the Highest is something which is no nullity in the world, but increasingly expresses itself here, – a divine Will, Consciousness, Love, Beatitude which pours itself out, when found, through the terms of the lower life on the finder and on all in his environment that is capable of receiving it. Of that he is the servant, lover and seeker. When it is attained, he pours it forth in work, love, joy and knowledge upon mankind. For always the Aryan is a worker and warrior. He spares himself no labour of mind or body whether to seek the Highest or to serve it. He avoids no difficulty, he accepts no cessation from fatigue. Always he fights for the coming of that kingdom within himself and in the world.”(CWSA 13, 442-43) According to the Indian culture, the canon of dharma is applicable only to an Aryan, and not to a mleccha. Therefore, in its all-embracing spirit, this culture did not seek to raise only a few elect to the state of Aryahood, but called upon each and every one to this ideal and even assisted him in its attainment. For an effective building of a nationwide atmosphere where each and every thought and act of an individual could be regulated by the law of Dharma, stress was always laid on the development of high moral, ethical and spiritual virtues. The plethora of living examples, taking each virtue almost to its extreme, inspired the whole country to cultivate and abide by those high moral standards and qualities. How deep-rooted and all-pervasive this idea of Aryan and un-Aryan conduct was in this culture becomes evident from an example we find in the Gita in the second verse of the second chapter, where Lord Sri Krishna rebukingly says to Arjuna, “Whence has come to thee this dejection, O Arjuna, in this hour of difficulty and peril. It is not cherished by Aryan men; it leads neither to heaven nor to glory.” Time and again we find this note of Dharma recurring in the old Indian literature. But the Indian conception of dharma or the right law of functioning must not be confused with those rigid and unchanging moral principles of the West which are to be imposed indiscriminately on all alike, without taking into account the varying capacities, stages and degrees of development and the bent of the nature of each individual and are, therefore, found in practice to be more or less ineffective and limited to vocal adherence. The Indian culture, on the contrary, looked upon each individual as essentially identical with the Divine and an expression of one of His infinite attributes. It held that each individual soul has its own essential nature and self-principle of being, <a id="_idIndexMarker227"></a>swabhava, which is the primary determinant and underlies all the outer dispositions. It is primarily in view of this fundamental truth of our being, swabhava, that four broad divisions of <a id="_idIndexMarker228"></a>varnas were made, namely, Brahmin, Kshatriya, Vaishya and Shudra. These are four distinct orders of the active nature, or four fundamental types of the soul in nature, and the proper work and proper function of each human being was that which corresponded to his type of nature. Therefore, not only detailed dharmas for each type of nature were laid down, but even a great emphasis was always kept on carrying out actions ordained by and in harmony with the truth of one’s being, governed by the Swabhava, <a id="_idIndexMarker229"></a>swabhava-niyata karma. In the Gita, one gets a glimpse of how all-pervasive and binding the dharmas had been in the old Indian society, when it says, “Better is one’s own law of works, <a id="_idIndexMarker230"></a><a id="_idIndexMarker231"></a>svadharma, though in itself faulty than an alien law well wrought out; <a id="_idIndexMarker232"></a>death in one’s own law of being is better, perilous is it to follow an alien law.” (3:35) Reiterating the same thing in its final chapter, it says, “Better is one’s Swadharma (own law of works) though in itself faulty, than an alien law well carried out; one does not incur sin when one does the work regulated by one’s self-nature.” (18:47) Even within a particular varna, with its own well-defined outline of dharma, the dharma for each individual would vary depending on the stage of his development. For evidently, the same ideal rule of conduct could not be indiscriminately applied to a Brahmachari and a householder, or to an adult and a child. Even for any two Brahmacharis the actual determination of dharmas for both must take into account their preference for or inclination towards one of the fourfold objects or Purusharthas of life. Thus, based on the four broad divisions of the <a id="_idIndexMarker233"></a>triple quartette of Varnas, Ashramas and Purusharthas and their interrelationships, the Indian culture categorised human nature into sixty-four divisions.</p>
			<p class="commentary">A colossal effort was made by the Indian Rishis to provide, in the form of shastras, a detailed and systematised teaching and science for each department of life, each line of activity, each subject of knowledge in order to enable man and society to regulate their whole life in the light of a higher dharma and to act with the security of right knowledge rather than being driven obscurely by their lower propensities. Just as any individual soul, each class, each race, each nation, and even the entire humanity has its own separate collective being with a unique truth of its own to manifest. All these collectivities too have their own general dharma, their ideal law of functioning and perfection. ‡</p>
			<h4 id="_idParaDest-20" class="Subhead3">(iii) The Exceeding of Dharma – The Ideal of <a id="_idIndexMarker234"></a>Moksha or <a id="_idIndexMarker235"></a>Mukti</h4>
			<p class="Body-Text">“Indian culture raised the crude animal life of desire, self-interest and satisfied propensity beyond its first intention to a noble self-exceeding and shapeliness by infusing into it the order and high aims of the Dharma. But its profounder characteristic aim – and in this it was unique – was to raise this nobler life too of the self-perfecting human being beyond its own intention to a mightiest self-exceeding and freedom; it laboured to infuse into it the great aim of spiritual liberation and perfection, mukti, mokṣa. The Law and its observance are neither the beginning nor the end of man; there is beyond the field of the Law a larger realm of consciousness in which, climbing, he emerges into a great spiritual freedom. Not a noble but ever death-bound manhood is the highest height of man’s perfection: immortality, freedom, divinity are within his grasp. Ancient Indian culture held this highest aim constantly before the inner eye of the soul and insistently inspired with its prospect and light the whole conception of existence. The entire life of the individual was ennobled by this aim; the whole ordering of society was cast into a scale of graduated ascension towards this supreme summit.</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">A well-governed system of the individual and communal existence must be always in the first instance an ordering of the three first powers recognised by Indian thought. The claim of the natural functionings must be recognised in it to the full; the pursuit of personal and communal interest and the satisfaction of human desires as of human needs must be amply admitted and there must be an understanding combination of knowledge and labour towards these ends. But all must be controlled, uplifted and widened to greater aims by the ideal of the Dharma. And if, as India believes, there is a higher spiritual consciousness towards which man can rise, that ascent must be kept throughout in view as the supreme goal of life. The system of Indian culture at once indulged and controlled man’s nature; it fitted him for his social role; it stamped on his mind the generous ideal of an accomplished humanity refined, harmonised in all its capacities, ennobled in all its members; but it placed before him too the theory and practice of a highest change, familiarised him with the conception of a spiritual existence and sowed in him a hunger for the divine and the infinite. The symbols of his religion were filled with suggestions which led towards it; at every step he was reminded of lives behind and in front and of worlds beyond the material existence; he was brought close to the nearness, even to the call and pressure of the Spirit who is greater than the life it informs, of the final goal, of a high possible immortality, freedom, God-consciousness, divine Nature. Man was not allowed to forget that he had in him a highest self beyond his little personal ego and that always he and all things live, move and have their being in God, in the Eternal, in the Spirit. There were ways and disciplines provided in number by which he could realise this liberating truth or could at least turn and follow at a distance this highest aim according to his capacity and nature, adhikāra. Around him he saw and revered the powerful practicants and the mighty masters of these disciplines. These men were in early times the teachers of his youth, the summits of his society, the inspirers and fountain-heads of his civilisation, the great lights of his culture. Spiritual freedom, spiritual perfection were not figured as a far-off intangible ideal, but presented as the highest human aim towards which all must grow in the end, and were made near and possible to his endeavour from a first practicable basis of life and the Dharma. The spiritual idea governed, enlightened and gathered towards itself all the other life-motives of a great civilised people.”31</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">“These are the principal lines upon which the structure of Indian civilisation was founded and they constitute the power of its conception of life. I do not think it can be said that there is here any inferiority to other human cultures or to any established conception of life that has ever held sway over the mind of man in historic times. There is nothing here that can be said to discourage life and its flowering or to deprive it of impetus and elevation and a great motive. On the contrary there is a full and frank recognition and examination of the whole of human existence in all its variety and range and power, there is a clear and wise and noble idea for its right government and there is an ideal tendency pointing it upward and a magnificent call to a highest possible perfection and greatness. These are the serious uses of culture, these are the things that raise the life of man above a crude, primitive barbarism. If a civilisation is to be judged by the power of its ideas, their power for these great uses, Indian civilisation was inferior to none. Certainly, it was not perfect or final or complete; for that can be alleged of no past or present cultural idea or system. Man is in his inmost self an infinite being, in his mind and life too he is continually growing, with whatever stumblings and long relapses, and he cannot be permanently bound in any one system of ideas or frame of living. The structures in which he lives are incomplete and provisional; even those which seem the most comprehensive lose their force to stand and are convicted by time of insufficiency and must be replaced or change. But this at least can be said of the Indian idea that it seized with a remarkable depth and comprehensiveness on the main truths and needs of the whole human being, on his mind and life and body, his artistic and ethical and intellectual parts of nature, his soul and spirit, and gave them a subtle and liberal, a profoundly large and high and wise, a sympathetic and yet nobly arduous direction. More cannot be said for any past or any existing culture.”32</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
