<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>BharatiyaSamskritiEnglishCommentary-19</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="BharatiyaSamskritiEnglishCommentary-19" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h3 id="_idParaDest-28" class="Subhead2">D. The Liberty of Religious Practice and Complete Freedom of Thought in Indian Religion</h3>
			<p class="Body-Text">“The endless variety of Indian philosophy and religion seems to the European mind interminable, bewildering, wearisome, useless; it is unable to see the forest because of the richness and luxuriance of its vegetation; it misses the common spiritual life in the multitude of its forms. But this infinite variety is itself, as Vivekananda pertinently pointed out, a sign of a superior religious culture. The Indian mind has always realised that the Supreme is the Infinite; it has perceived, right from its Vedic beginnings, that to the soul in Nature the Infinite must always present itself in an endless variety of aspects. The mentality of the West has long cherished the aggressive and quite illogical idea of a single religion for all mankind, a religion universal by the very force of its narrowness, one set of dogmas, one cult, one system of ceremonies, one array of prohibitions and injunctions, one ecclesiastical ordinance. That narrow absurdity prances about as the one true religion which all must accept on peril of persecution by men here and spiritual rejection or fierce eternal punishment by God in other worlds. This grotesque creation of human unreason, the parent of so much intolerance, cruelty, obscurantism and aggressive fanaticism, has never been able to take firm hold of the free and supple mind of India. Men everywhere have common human failings, and intolerance and narrowness especially in the matter of observances there has been and is in India. There has been much violence of theological disputation, there have been querulous bickerings of sects with their pretensions to spiritual superiority and greater knowledge, and sometimes, at one time especially in southern India in a period of acute religious differences, there have been brief local outbreaks of active mutual tyranny and persecution even unto death. But these things have never taken the proportions which they assumed in Europe. Intolerance has been confined for the most part to the minor forms of polemical attack or to social obstruction or ostracism; very seldom have they transgressed across the line to the major forms of barbaric persecution which draw a long, red and hideous stain across the religious history of Europe. There has played ever in India the saving perception of a higher and purer spiritual intelligence, which has had its effect on the mass mentality. Indian religion has always felt that since the minds, the temperaments, the intellectual affinities of men are unlimited in their variety, a perfect liberty of thought and of worship must be allowed to the individual in his approach to the Infinite.</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">India recognised authority of spiritual experience and knowledge, but she recognised still more the need of variety of spiritual experience and knowledge. Even in the days of decline when the claim of authority became in too many directions rigorous and excessive, she still kept the saving perception that there could not be one but must be many authorities. An alert readiness to acknowledge new light capable of enlarging the old tradition has always been characteristic of the religious mind in India. Indian civilisation did not develop to a last logical conclusion its earlier political and social liberties, – that greatness of freedom or boldness of experiment belongs to the West; but liberty of religious practice and a complete freedom of thought in religion as in every other matter have always counted among its constant traditions. The atheist and the agnostic were free from persecution in India. <a id="_idIndexMarker269"></a>Buddhism and <a id="_idIndexMarker270"></a>Jainism might be disparaged as unorthodox religions, but they were allowed to live freely side by side with the orthodox creeds and philosophies; in her eager thirst for truth she gave them their full chance, tested all their values, and as much of their truth as was assimilable was taken into the stock of the common and always enlarging continuity of her spiritual experience. That ageless continuity was carefully conserved, but it admitted light from all quarters. In latter times the saints who reached some fusion of the Hindu and the Islamic teaching were freely and immediately recognised as leaders of Hindu religion, – even, in some cases, when they started with a Mussulman birth and from the Mussulman standpoint. The Yogin who developed a new path of Yoga, the religious teacher who founded a new order, the thinker who built up a novel statement of the many-sided truth of spiritual existence, found no serious obstacle to their practice or their propaganda. At most they had to meet the opposition of the priest and pundit instinctively adverse to any change; but this had only to be lived down for the new element to be received into the free and pliant body of the national religion and its ever plastic order.”44</p>
			<p class="commentary">‡ There are a few points here that need to be viewed in the right perspective. First of all, we need to have a just understanding and right view of the failings or the lapses of this culture mentioned here by Sri Aurobindo, without which, one always runs a risk of falling prey to that exaggerated outlook of the West that arises from an utterly unsympathetic and adverse point of view, and even more, due to a mentality tainted with malicious and vested motives bent on representing these failings as the whole of the Indian culture. This adverse outlook on Indian culture has established its roots deeply even in the mentality of a lot of those Indians who, isolated from their native spiritual culture and its genius due to their English education, are enamoured of the Occidental culture and values which is increasingly reflected in our textbooks, media and all the other possible avenues of expression. A critical appraisal, even when it is made on sympathetic grounds, can be of any value only when it looks at the subject of its inquiry in its entirety and not in isolated parts. Therefore, when talking of the defects of this culture, such as the violence of theological disputation, querulous bickerings of sects with their pretensions to spiritual superiority and greater knowledge, acute religious differences, mutual tyranny of classes, etc., one must try to look at them from the perspective of Indian culture, only then one can hope to arrive at a just understanding and an appropriate view of them. Besides, it must be clearly understood that all such problems as mentioned here are not peculiar to this culture and religion but are common failings of the egoistic and unregenerate human nature which always tends towards appropriating and possessing things for its own narrow self and asserting as right and superior all that seems to it to belong to its ego – its own opinions, prejudices, its caste, class, sect, etc. But the peculiarity of the Indian culture lay in a greater regulation and sublimation of these tendencies than can be seen in any of the other known cultures of the world. This is why, being deeply pained and annoyed by the abuses incessantly hurled against the Indian religion by the West, Swami <a id="_idIndexMarker271"></a>Vivekananda said, “What have the Hindus done to these disciples of Christ that every Christian child is taught to call the Hindus “vile”, and “wretches”, and the most horrible devils on earth? Part of the Sunday School education for children here consists in teaching them to hate everybody who is not a Christian, and the Hindus especially, so that, from their very childhood they may subscribe their pennies to the missions. If not for truth’s sake, for the sake of the morality of their own children, the <a id="_idIndexMarker272"></a>Christian missionaries ought not to allow such things going on. Is it any wonder that such children grow up to be ruthless and cruel men and women? The greater a preacher can paint the tortures of eternal hell — the fire that is burning there, the brimstone — the higher is his position among the orthodox. A servant-girl in the employ of a friend of mine had to be sent to a lunatic asylum as a result of her attending what they call here the revivalist-preaching. The dose of hell-fire and brimstone was too much for her. Look again at the books published in Madras against the Hindu religion. If a Hindu writes one such line against the Christian religion, the missionaries will cry fire and vengeance.</p>
			<p class="commentary">My countrymen, I have been more than a year in this country. I have seen almost every corner of the society, and, after comparing notes, let me tell you that neither are we devils, as the missionaries tell the world we are, nor are they angels, as they claim to be. The less the missionaries talk of immorality, infanticide, and the evils of the Hindu marriage system, the better for them. There may be actual pictures of some countries before which all the imaginary missionary pictures of the Hindu society will fade away into light. But my mission in life is not to be a paid reviler. I will be the last man to claim perfection for the Hindu society. No man is more conscious of the defects that are therein, or the evils that have grown up under centuries of misfortunes. If, foreign friends, you come with genuine sympathy to help and not to destroy, Godspeed to you. But if by abuses, incessantly hurled against the head of a prostrate race in season and out of season, you mean only the triumphant assertion of the moral superiority of your own nation, let me tell you plainly, if such a comparison be instituted with any amount of justice, the Hindu will be found head and shoulders above all other nations in the world as a moral race.” (CWSV 4, 345-46) Similarly, when comparing the Indian and Western culture with regard to the freedom of thought or liberty of religious practice and the readiness to accept any change in the society, we find that each new change in the West had to make its way through much violence and bloodshed whereas, in India, no such serious obstacle is to be found. The most that one had to encounter here was that opposition of the tamasic human nature which instinctively resists any change and tries to perpetuate forever the old order of things. It has been characteristic of the religious mind of India that it has always been supple enough to take in new elements and give them their rightful place in the whole system. But truly speaking, all this flexibility and inclusiveness could persist because of her deep age-long fidelity to her spiritual ideal that has always held on firmly to the highest spiritual insight and which, in spite of all appearances, upholds this culture even to this day. What more evident proof of this spiritual element being active at the core and firmly upholding this culture could there be than the fact that it could triumphantly endure and survive such conditions of physical, psychological and cultural atrocities and sufferings imposed by foreign invaders as would have been hardly possible for any other culture to withstand and survive? Even when the very backbone of this culture was being attacked by foreign invaders, efforts were being made to systematically destroy and corrupt its very foundation – ‘the Vedas’ and other scriptures, the entire fabric of individual and collective life was being torn apart and exploited for their own self-interests, and the nakedness of country and the squalor of her poverty were being flung in her face as evidence of the worthlessness of her culture, to have firmly held on to its faith in its spiritual ideal even in the face of such grim conditions is a virtue the like of which is hardly to be seen in any other culture. Being deeply shaken by the atrocities of <a id="_idIndexMarker273"></a>British Rule in India, Swami <a id="_idIndexMarker274"></a>Vivekananda wrote in one of his letters, “There has been a reign of terror in India for some years. English soldiers are killing our men and outraging our women — only to be sent home with passage and pension at our expense. We are in a terrible gloom — where is the Lord?” (CWSV 8, 476-77) But indeed it is the Divine Mother herself who upholds this nation and its culture. At present, when mankind is undergoing an evolutionary crisis, and especially India, which has become the symbolic representation of all the difficulties of modern mankind, we need to have an unshakable faith in the Divine Mother, and call upon Her to save this nation and the entire human race and lead them to their true goal. ‡</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
