<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>BharatiyaSamskritiEnglishCommentary-9</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="BharatiyaSamskritiEnglishCommentary-9" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h3 id="_idParaDest-9" class="Subhead2">C. Life-Value of Indian Religion</h3>
			<p class="Body-Text">“A right judgment of the life-value of Indian philosophy is intimately bound up with a right appreciation of the life-value of <a id="_idIndexMarker133"></a>Indian religion; religion and philosophy are too intimately one in this culture to be divided from each other. <a id="_idIndexMarker134"></a>Indian philosophy is not a purely rational gymnastic of speculative logic in the air, an ultra-subtle process of thought-spinning and word-spinning like the greater part of philosophy in Europe; it is the organised intellectual theory of the intuitive ordering perception of all that is the soul, the thought, the dynamic truth, the heart of feeling and power of Indian religion. Indian religion is Indian spiritual philosophy put into action and experience. Whatever in the religious thought and practice of that vast, rich, thousand-sided, infinitely pliable, yet very firmly structured system we call <a id="_idIndexMarker135"></a>Hinduism, does not in intention come under this description, – whatever its practice, – is either social framework or projection of ritual buttresses or survival of old supports and additions. Or else it is an excrescence and growth of corruption, a degradation of its truth and meaning in the vulgar mind, part of the debased mixtures that overtake all religious thinking and practice. Or, in some instances, it is dead habit contracted in periods of fossilisation or ill-assimilated extraneous matter gathered into this giant body. The inner principle of Hinduism, the most tolerant and receptive of religious systems, is not sharply exclusive like the religious spirit of Christianity or Islam; as far as that could be without loss of its own powerful idiosyncrasy and law of being, it has been synthetic, acquisitive, inclusive. Always it has taken in from every side and trusted to the power of assimilation that burns in its spiritual heart and in the white heat of its flaming centre to turn even the most unpromising material into forms for its spirit.”16</p>
			<p class="commentary">‡ The life-value of Indian philosophy is intimately one with the life-value of its religion, for, fundamentally, the <a id="_idIndexMarker136"></a>work of religion has been to provide dynamic forms to the spiritual philosophy. After all, how can there possibly be any discordance or disharmony between the thought and action when one common spiritual intuition guides them both? In other cultures, philosophy has been either mostly, or completely, based on mental speculation, logical reasoning, or other abstractions devoid of any deeper spiritual experience, and as a consequence, philosophy lost contact with the truth of dynamic life and both religion and philosophy became two discordant movements. Whereas, in Indian culture, <a id="_idIndexMarker137"></a>philosophy has been founded on deep spiritual intuition and revelation, and religion serves as a means for the effectuation of that highest revelation in the dynamic life by taking up both the individual and the society in its hands and gradually turning them towards the expression of that spiritual experience. In India, philosophy and religion have become one unified current, therefore the authenticity of philosophy is put to test at every step in its application to dynamic life. To take one instance, in the grand <a id="_idIndexMarker138"></a>debate of Yajnavalkya with the Brahmavadins at the court of King Janaka, we find that the answer to questioning does not move by logic either in its inception, in its process or in its consummation, and the superiority of the conqueror is not decided by his proficiency in dealing with ever subtler ideas but by the depth of his knowledge and experience. The question one puts to another is not what one thinks, but what one fundamentally knows, what has one experienced, what one is in his true self, how intimately has one realised the truth, and how much of that truth one has been able to put into practice. The Mother asserts something to this effect when she says: “To know is good, to live is better, to be, that is perfect.”(CWM 15, 173)</p>
			<p class="commentary"> It is a deep underlying spiritual experience that is the basis of each and every form and element in this culture, and it is that which synthesises them all. It is for this reason, that even seemingly contradictory philosophies have been accepted as different aspects of the same truth. Moreover, even in the presence of the many available methods, an infinite room has always been kept for still noveler <a id="_idIndexMarker139"></a>paths of approaching the truth. For, this culture has always believed that each individual is and carries within himself a special attribute or truth of the divine which he alone will manifest. Therefore, the course of its unfolding or the path of its manifestation in an individual, even when apparently having close resemblance to some other path or system, is fundamentally unique. Even among those following a particular system, each follows one’s own different course of evolution. For example, even under the aegis of the common guru in Sri Aurobindo Ashram, Pondicherry, each sadhak/sadhika had his/her own line of experiences, and the way Sri Aurobindo and the Mother dealt with each one of them was according to their inner disposition and need as is evident from their correspondence with Sri Aurobindo and the Mother. When such qualities as inclusiveness, tolerance, infinite pliability, receptiveness, acquisitiveness, and so on are attributed to the Indian culture, it should not be taken to mean that an amalgam of an infinite variety of discordant components without coherence was thriving here due to a lack of clear control or management. On the contrary, it is indicative of a firmly founded system where a vast comprehensiveness and an infinite variety could move together in perfect association, a system where the smallest detail was turned into a form consonant with its spirit by the fire burning in the spiritual heart of this culture. As it is common sense to differentiate between a person and his changing raiments, so when we will have a deep understanding and experience of the fundamental spirit, the central motive of this culture, we will not be easily misled by the confusion of changing outer forms and be able to see through them the spirit behind which informs them. If we happen to come across something that doesn’t fall in conformity with the spirit of this culture, then according to Sri Aurobindo, it is ‘either social framework or projection of ritual buttresses or survival of old supports and additions’. Usually, all such forms or practices or things that were once living, but when their utility was over, or when they were no longer able to keep pace with the changing times and circumstances, the spirit inside them was lost and they remained mere frameworks or relics of some old supports. It is by the supply of fresh waters, that is to say, by the constant streaming in of renewed inner experiences, that any system, form or practice stays alive. In the age of intuition, when men live according to some high and profound realisation of their divine possibility, no fixed outer forms are required. But as society moves towards the surface parts of the being and its contact with the spiritual intuition weakens, it has to take recourse to fixed outer forms and practices, which after a time, due to the above mentioned reasons, become lifeless. It is these forms that are generally mistaken for the <a id="_idIndexMarker140"></a>Sanatana Dharma. Even for a sect it is hardly possible to retain its original spirit and vitality after its founder is gone, and sooner or later it becomes a dead outer framework and finally dissolves unless renewed by an undisturbed line of seekers with genuine spiritual experience. The sects or traditions which have been able to perpetuate themselves for longer periods of time are the ones in which a continuous series of spiritual masters have brought in fresh spiritual revelations, and based on them, renewed outer forms adapted to the changing demands of the time and circumstances. The following words of Sri Aurobindo illumine this whole subject. “Take the hymn of the Rig Veda which is supposed to be a <a id="_idIndexMarker141"></a>marriage hymn for the union of a human couple and was certainly used as such in the later Vedic ages. Yet the whole sense of the hymn turns about the successive marriages of Suryā, daughter of the Sun, with different gods and the human marriage is quite a subordinate matter overshadowed and governed entirely by the divine and mystic figure and is spoken of in the terms of that figure. Mark, however, that the divine marriage here is not, as it would be in later ancient poetry, a decorative image or poetical ornamentation used to set off and embellish the human union; on the contrary, the human is an inferior figure and image of the divine. The distinction marks off the entire contrast between that more <a id="_idIndexMarker142"></a>ancient mentality and our modern regard upon things. This symbolism influenced for a long time Indian ideas of marriage and is even now conventionally remembered though no longer understood or effective…. Or let us take, for this example will serve us best, the Vedic institution of the fourfold order, <a id="_idIndexMarker143"></a>caturvarṇa, miscalled the system of the four castes, – for caste is a conventional, <a id="_idIndexMarker144"></a>varṇa a symbolic and typal institution. We are told that the institution of the four orders of society was the result of an economic evolution complicated by political causes. Very possibly; but the important point is that it was not so regarded and could not be so regarded by the men of that age. For while we are satisfied when we have found the practical and material causes of a social phenomenon and do not care to look farther, they cared little or only subordinately for its material factors and looked always first and foremost for its symbolic, religious or psychological significance. This appears in the <a id="_idIndexMarker145"></a>Purushasukta of the Veda, where the four orders are described as having sprung from the body of the creative Deity, from his head, arms, thighs and feet. To us this is merely a poetical image and its sense is that the <a id="_idIndexMarker146"></a>Brahmins were the men of knowledge, the <a id="_idIndexMarker147"></a>Kshatriyas the men of power, the <a id="_idIndexMarker148"></a>Vaishyas the producers and support of society, the <a id="_idIndexMarker149"></a>Shudras its servants. As if that were all, as if the men of those days would have so profound a reverence for mere poetical figures like this of the body of Brahma or that other of the marriages of Suryā, would have built upon them elaborate systems of ritual and sacred ceremony, enduring institutions, great demarcations of social type and ethical discipline. We read always our own mentality into that of these ancient forefathers and it is therefore that we can find in them nothing but imaginative barbarians.”(CWSA 25, 7-9) This gives us some idea of the deep rationale behind <a id="_idIndexMarker150"></a>ritualism or <a id="_idIndexMarker151"></a>karmakanda. Our Vedic Rishis had a deep perception that the supreme truth can be experienced, it can be lived, but cannot be known, for it is not an object of knowledge. After all, what is the practical utility of a truth which cannot effectuate itself into action? Therefore, the whole social framework was surrounded at each step by rituals, ceremonies, festivals, and countless other practices with the sole aim of turning all the various parts of man towards the divine. But according to the Hindu theory of the <a id="_idIndexMarker152"></a>Yuga cycle, as the culture moves on from the Vedic age of intuitive consciousness to the lower rungs of the cycle, it dwells more and more in its surface parts of the being. The symbols of the Vedic inner sacrifice are then no more as living and vivid as they used to be, rather, due to an externalised mentality and vision of things there is a degradation of the truth of the symbols in the vulgar mind and they begin to be taken into their more external and ritualistic sense. It is such ritual buttresses and survival of old supports that Sri Aurobindo is here referring to and forewarning us not to confuse these with the eternal religion. Apart from being merely ritualistic buttresses, these forms may quite possibly be an excrescence and growth of corruption, a degradation of the truth and its meaning in the crude mind, part of the debased mixtures that tends to overtake all religious thinking and practice over time. Or, in some instances, it may be a dead habit contracted in periods of fossilisation or some ill-assimilated extraneous matter gathered into this giant body. As, in the initial stages of one’s education when one starts learning basic skills of reading, writing, word-formation and comprehension, one often makes mistakes, or, as when a novice tries to draw a picture, his work is very crude and second rate, in the same way, when a person, lacking any deep experience, tries to deal with and enter into some profound truth, a degradation of the truth and its meaning is likely to ensue, even though the truth in itself remains unaffected by any such corruption or debasement. In their effort to refine, civilise and turn the subconscient and cruder parts of the being towards the Divine, the religious practices or tantric systems themselves have to bear dark spots and subjection to corruption. But we should never lose sight of the truth that given the present constitution of human nature, no matter what devices are used to control, discipline and rightly govern such a nature, these devices themselves have to bear its crudities and obscurities.</p>
			<p class="commentary">In the light of the above discussion, it should be evident that, to get the right view of the Sanatana Dharma, one must get to the fundamental spirit of this culture and realise it in oneself so that one may better understand not only the forms and the course it has taken for its self-expression but also get a sense of the difficulties and degradations that any truth is likely to be subjected to in its manifestation. It is only in the light of the right perspective that one is able to see how the things one had considered to be the shortcomings of this culture have been the inevitable consequences of the logic of its effort directed towards the spiritualisation of human life. ‡</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
