<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>BharatiyaSamskritiEnglishCommentary-10</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="BharatiyaSamskritiEnglishCommentary-10" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h3 id="_idParaDest-10" class="Subhead2">D. The Rationalistic Critic’s Arguments Against Hinduism</h3>
			<h4 id="_idParaDest-11" class="Subhead3">(i) The Total <a id="_idIndexMarker153"></a>Irrationality of Hinduism</h4>
			<p class="Body-Text">This is the main theme of Mr. Archer’s attack on Hinduism. “He explains the pervading irrational character of Hindu religion by the allegation that the Indian people have always gravitated towards the form rather than the substance and towards the letter rather than the spirit. One would have supposed that this kind of gravitation is a fairly universal feature of the human mind, not only in religion, but in society, politics, art, literature, even in science. In every conceivable human activity a cult of the form and forgetfulness of the spirit, a turn towards convention, externalism, unthinking dogma has been the common drift of the human mind from China to Peru and it does not skip Europe on its way. And Europe where men have constantly fought, killed, burned, tortured, imprisoned, persecuted in every way imaginable by human stupidity and cruelty for the sake of dogmas, words, rites and forms of church government, Europe where these things have done duty for spirituality and religion, has hardly a record which would entitle it to cast this reproach in the face of the East. But, we are told, this gravitation afflicts the Indian religion more than any other creed. Higher Hinduism can be scarcely said to exist except in certain small reforming sects and current Hinduism, the popular religion, is the cult of a monstrous folk-lore oppressive and paralysing to the imagination, – although here again one would think that if anything an excess rather than a paralysis of the creative imagination might be charged against the Indian mind. Animism and magic are the prevailing characteristics. The Indian people has displayed a genius for obfuscating reason and formalising, materialising and degrading religion. If India has possessed great thinkers, she has not extracted from their thoughts a rational and ennobling religion: the devotion of the Spanish or the Russian peasant is rational and enlightened by comparison.”17</p>
			<p class="commentary">‡ Sri Aurobindo has already mentioned above that the gravitation towards form is a universal tendency of the human mind, and Europe is no exception to it – in fact, it is far more prone to it than the Indian mind. Still, it is the Indian mind that is criticised for gravitating towards form rather than the substance, while really the very opposite is the truth. For, in India the eye is always predominantly on the motive or the spirit behind the act rather than its outer form or expression. It is a recurring note in all Indian literature that the Divine is always the enjoyer of the feeling and the sentiment behind the offering. To understand why such aspersions are cast on the Indian culture we must ponder over why or how the eye of a critic gets the impression of an <a id="_idIndexMarker154"></a>externalist turn in this culture, and, if even a trace of it is there, then what could possibly be the deep rationale behind such a tendency. Here are some excerpts from the writings of Sri Aurobindo and the Mother that provide us a deep perspective on this whole issue.</p>
			<p class="commentary">The Gita says, ““He who gives to me with a heart of adoration a leaf, a flower, a fruit or a cup of water, I take and enjoy that offering of his devotion” ..it is not only any dedicated external gift that can be so offered with love and devotion, but all our thoughts, all our feelings and sensations, all our outward activities and their forms and objects can be such gifts to the Eternal. It is true that the special act or form of action has its importance, even a great importance, but it is the spirit in the act that is the essential factor; the spirit of which it is the symbol or materialised expression gives it its whole value and justifying significance. Or it may be said that a <a id="_idIndexMarker155"></a>complete act of <a id="_idIndexMarker156"></a>divine love and worship has in it three parts that are the expressions of a single whole, – a practical worship of the Divine in the act, a symbol of worship in the form of the act expressing some vision and seeking or some relation with the Divine, an inner adoration and longing for oneness or feeling of oneness in the heart and soul and spirit. It is so that life can be changed into worship, – by putting behind it the spirit of a transcendent and universal love, the seeking of oneness, the sense of oneness; by making each act a symbol, an expression of Godward emotion or a relation with the Divine; by turning all we do into an act of worship, an act of the soul’s communion, the mind’s understanding, the life’s obedience, the heart’s surrender.”(CWSA 23, 162-63) Shedding further light on this quote of Sri Aurobindo, the Mother says, “There is a purely physical form of the act, like those forms in cults in which a particular gesture, a particular movement is meant to express the consecration. That is purely material, as for example, lighting incense, arranging offerings, or even looking after a temple, decorating an idol, indeed all such purely physical acts.</p>
			<p class="commentary">The second part is a sort of mental consecration which makes the act that is performed a symbol. One is not satisfied with merely lighting the incense, but while lighting the incense one makes this gesture symbolic – for example, of the aspiration burning in the body or of self-giving in a dissolution, in the purification of the fire. That is to say, first the act, then the symbol in this act and the symbolic understanding of what is done.</p>
			<p class="commentary">And finally, behind these two, an aspiration for union; that all this, these acts and the symbol you make of them, may be only a means of drawing closer and closer to the Divine and making yourself fit to unite with Him.</p>
			<p class="commentary">These three things must be there for the act to be complete: that is, something purely material, something mental, and something psychic, the psychic aspiration. If one of the three is there without the other two, it is incomplete. As a rule, very rarely are the three consciously combined. That produces beings of exceptional sincerity and consecration: the entire being, in all its parts, participates in the action.”(CWM 8, 234-35) </p>
			<p class="commentary">Along with providing a deep perspective on the accusation that ‘the Indian people have always gravitated towards the form rather than the substance and towards the letter rather than the spirit’, this whole discussion also reveals the supreme <a id="_idIndexMarker157"></a>importance of the outer expression in order to make any act truly complete. Moreover, any mental speculations and dry metaphysical or rational gymnastics should not be taken for true knowledge. It is only the realisation of the Divine Reality that brings true knowledge, which can only be attained by love and devotion for the Divine. Even if a person professes to have attained the so-called knowledge but is devoid of devotion, then this is an undeniable sign of a lack of any true knowledge of the Divine Reality. Similarly, if a person is supposed to have devotion but the true knowledge of the Divine Reality is as yet absent, then this is a sure indicator of the lack of true devotion. True devotion and true knowledge are movements that always go together, and with them, spontaneously the true action joins in for an effective expression and manifestation of the devotion and knowledge. If a person has devotion but does not act for the Divine, then it means that he has neither knowledge nor devotion. For how is it possible not to act for someone we love or have devotion for? Therefore, (beyond a point) true knowledge, true devotion and true action always go together, complementing and perfecting each other. ‡</p>
			<h4 id="_idParaDest-12" class="Subhead3">(ii) The <a id="_idIndexMarker158"></a>Paganism of Indian Religious Spirit</h4>
			<p class="Body-Text">“India ... still clings to what not only the Western world, but China and Japan have outgrown for ages. The religion is a superstition full of performances of piety repulsive to the free enlightened secular mind of the modern man. Its daily practices put it far outside the pale of civilisation. Perhaps, if it had confined its practice decorously to church attendance on Sundays and to marriage and funeral services and grace before meat, it might have been admitted as human and tolerable! As it is, it is the great anachronism of the modern world; it has not been cleansed for thirty centuries; it is paganism, it is a wholly unfiltered paganism; its tendency towards pollution rather than purification marks out its place as incomparably the lowest in the scale of world religions. An ingenious <a id="_idIndexMarker159"></a>remedy is proposed. Christianity destroyed Paganism in Europe; therefore, since any immediate or very rapid triumph of sceptical free-thought would be too happily abrupt a transition to be quite feasible, we unenlightened, polluted, impure Hindus are advised to take up for a time with Christianity, poor irrational thing that it is, dark and deformed though it looks in the ample light of the positivist reason, because Christianity and especially Protestant Christianity will be at least a good preparatory step towards the noble freedom and stainless purities of atheism and agnosticism. But if even this little cannot be hoped for in spite of numerous famine <a id="_idIndexMarker160"></a>conversions, at any rate Hinduism must somehow or other get itself filtered, and until that hygienic operation has been executed, India must be denied fellowship on equal terms with the civilised nations.”18 </p>
			<p class="commentary">‡ The Indians have been advised to, first of all, purify themselves of idolatry and other impure superstitious practices to gain eligibility to sit among the civilised nations. If they find it difficult to do away with their ritualism all of a sudden, then it would at least be a good start to go to church on Sundays, offer a prayer on some occasions, and get the clergyman to perform some funeral rites for the dead. All these observances fall within the realm of being civilised for the very reason that they are followed by Christians, and after all, Christianity is the one to set the standards of being civilised or uncivilised. It has been a general impression about the Indian culture that it is a race of uncivilised people who need to be civilised, for, they are so muddled up in their head that disregarding the things sensible and tangible, they regard insensible or imperceptible things or the so-called subtle worlds as real. What greater imbecility can there be than to personify the forces of nature and to deify and idolise them? A vivid example of such a mindset towards Indian religion is reflected in the article ‘The <a id="_idIndexMarker161"></a>British Rule in India’ written by <a id="_idIndexMarker162"></a>Karl Marx on 10th June 1853, which was first published in ‘The New York Daily Tribune’ No. 3608 on 25 June 1853. In this article, while giving an account of the diversity in India, he writes about its religion, “That religion is at once a religion of sensualist exuberance, and a religion of self-torturing asceticism; a religion of the Lingam and of the juggernaut<span id="footnote-005-backlink"><a class="_idFootnoteLink _idGenColorInherit" href="BharatiyaSamskritiEnglishCommentary-10.xhtml#footnote-005">[3]</a></span>; the religion of the Monk, and of the Bayadere.<span id="footnote-004-backlink"><a class="_idFootnoteLink _idGenColorInherit" href="BharatiyaSamskritiEnglishCommentary-10.xhtml#footnote-004">[4]</a></span>” Further, giving an account of the atrocities committed by invaders, especially by the English, on the Indians, he writes, “There cannot, however, remain any doubt but that the misery inflicted by the British on Hindostan is of an essentially different and infinitely more intensive kind than all Hindostan had to suffer before.” Then in his own way, he gives a long account of how the British rule completely ruined the country. But he concludes his article by saying that undoubtedly the atrocities afflicted by the English on Indians have been inhuman but then after all, given the kind of uncivilised people Indians are, they had to be civilised somehow or the other. He writes, “We must not forget that these little communities were contaminated by distinctions of caste and by slavery, that they subjugated man to external circumstances instead of elevating man to be the sovereign of circumstances, that they transformed a self-developing social state into never changing natural destiny, and thus brought about a brutalizing worship of nature, exhibiting its degradation in the fact that man, the sovereign of nature, fell down on his knees in adoration of Hanuman, the monkey, and Sabbala<span id="footnote-003-backlink"><a class="_idFootnoteLink _idGenColorInherit" href="BharatiyaSamskritiEnglishCommentary-10.xhtml#footnote-003">[5]</a></span>, the cow.</p>
			<p class="commentary">England, it is true, in causing a social revolution in Hindostan, was actuated only by the vilest interests, and was stupid in her manner of enforcing them. But that is not the question. The question is, can mankind fulfil its destiny without a fundamental revolution in the social state of Asia? If not, whatever may have been the crimes of England she was the unconscious tool of history in bringing about that revolution.” Not only the European critics, the Indian critics, even more than the European critics, under the spell of western education and culture, feel proud in regarding and presenting themselves as free from all Indian religious traditions, idol worship, and other practices. It is because of the lack of any sympathy or understanding of India and its culture that people like <a id="_idIndexMarker163"></a>Max Muller – whose sole motivation was to malign Indian culture and convince the Indians to give up their old beliefs and religion, and thus pave the way for Christian <a id="_idIndexMarker164"></a>conversion – are considered to be Vedic scholars and great benefactors of Indian culture, and their books, wilfully written to present a distorted view of Indian history, are still being taught and studied. Now that his letters are in public domain, there remains no doubt that, though he was not a missionary in the literal sense, Max Muller’s work was infused with the Christian missionary spirit. Here is some evidence from the book “<a id="_idIndexMarker165"></a>Max Muller: A Secular Christian Missionary and Distorter of the Veda” by K.V. Paliwal, published by the Hindu Writers Forum, New Delhi, 2006. Max Muller’s translation of the Veda was highly motivated but he never openly expressed it except in intimate private letters such as the one written to his wife in December 1866, “I hope I shall finish that work, and I feel convinced, though I shall not live to see it, that this edition of mine and the translation of the Veda will hereafter tell to a great extent on the fate of India, and on the growth of millions of souls in that country. It is the root of their religion, and to show them what that root is, I feel sure, is the only way of uprooting all that has sprung up from it during the last three thousand Years.” (p. 26)</p>
			<p class="commentary">Another letter written by Max Muller ten years before the above leaves no doubt about his Christian missionary motives. Writing to Mr. Bunsen on 25.8.1856, he says, “….After the last annexation the territorial conquest of India ceases – what follows next is the struggle in the realm of religion and of spirit, in which, of course, centre the interests of the nations. India is much riper for Christianity than Rome or Greece were at the time of St. Paul….I should like to live for ten years quite quietly and learn the language, try to make friends, and then see whether I was fit to take part in the work, by means of which the old mischief of Indian priestcraft could be overthrown and the way opened for the entrance of simple Christian teaching, that entrance which this teaching finds into every human heart, which is free from the ensnaring powers of priests and from the obscuring influence of philosophers. Whatever finds root in India soon overshadows the whole of Asia, and nowhere could the vital power of Christianity more gloriously realize itself than if the world saw it spring up there for a second time, in very different form than in the West, but still essentially the same.” (p. 20-21)</p>
			<p class="commentary">Qs. What is the rationale behind <a id="_idIndexMarker166"></a>idol worship?</p>
			<p class="commentary">Ans. The Mother, speaking on this issue, had said, “All this is based on the old idea that whatever the image – which we disdainfully call an ‘idol’ – whatever the external form of the deity may be, the presence of the thing represented is always there. And there is always someone – whether priest or initiate, sadhu or sannyasi – someone who has the power and (usually this is the priest’s work) who draws the Force and the Presence down into it. And it’s true, it’s quite real – the Force and the Presence are THERE; and this (not the form in wood or stone or metal) is what is worshipped: this Presence.</p>
			<p class="commentary">Europeans don’t have the inner sense at all. To them, everything is like this (gesture), a surface – not even that, a film on the surface. And they can’t feel anything behind. But it’s an absolutely real fact that the Presence is there – I guarantee it. People have given me statuettes of various gods, little things in metal, wood or ivory; and as soon as I take one in my hand, the god is there. I have a Ganesh (I have been given several) and if I take it in my hand and look at it for a moment, he’s there.... I have always felt what’s behind, the presences behind.” (Mother’s Agenda 1961, Vol. 2, p. 192-93) ‡</p>
			<h4 id="_idParaDest-13" class="Subhead3">(iii) Lack of All Moral Worth and Ethical Substance</h4>
			<p class="Body-Text">“Incidentally, to support this charge of irrationalism and its companion charge of Paganism, we find a third and more damaging count brought against us and our religious culture, an alleged want of all moral worth and ethical substance. There is now an increasing perception, even in Europe, that reason is not the last word of human mind, not quite the one and only sovereign way to truth and certainly not the sole arbiter of religious and spiritual truth. The accusation of paganism too does not settle the question, since plenty of cultivated minds are well able to see that there were many great, true and beautiful things in the ancient religions that were lumped together by Christian ignorance under that inappropriate nickname. Nor has the world been entirely a gainer by losing these high ancient forms and motives. But whatever the actual practice of men, – and in this respect the normal human being is a singular mixture of the sincere but quite ineffective, the just respectable, would-be ethical man and the self-deceiving or semi-hypocritical Pharisee, – one can always appeal with force to a moralistic prejudice. All religions raise high the flag of morality and, whether religious or secular-minded, all but the antinomian, the rebel and the cynic, profess to follow or at least to admit that standard in their lives. This accusation is therefore about the most prejudicial charge that can be brought against any religion. The self-constituted prosecuting judge whose diatribe we are examining brings it without scruple and without measure. He has discovered that Hinduism is not an ennobling or even a morally helpful religion; if it has talked much of righteousness, it has never claimed moral teaching as one of its functions. A religion that can talk much of righteousness without performing the function of moral teaching, sounds rather like a square which can make no claim to be a quadrilateral; but let that pass. If the Hindu is comparatively free from the grosser Western vices, – as yet only, and only until he enters “the pale of civilisation” by adopting Christianity or otherwise, – it is not because there is any ethical strain in his character; it is because these vices do not come his way. His social system founded on the barbarous idea of the Dharma, of the divine and the human, the universal and the individual, the ethical and the social law, and supported on it at every point, has stupidly neglected to supply him with the opportunities of departing from it so liberally provided by Western civilisation! And yet the whole character of Hinduism, which is the character of the people, indicates, we are calmly told, a melancholy proclivity towards whatever is monstrous and unwholesome!”19</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">“The rites, ceremonies, system of cult and worship of Hinduism can only be understood if we remember its fundamental character. It is in the first place a non-dogmatic inclusive religion and would have taken even Islam and Christianity into itself, if they had tolerated the process. All that it has met on its way it has taken into itself, content if it could put its forms into some valid relation with the truth of the supraphysical worlds and the truth of the Infinite. Again it has always known in its heart that religion, if it is to be a reality for the mass of men and not only for a few saints and thinkers, must address its appeal to the whole of our being, not only to the suprarational and the rational parts, but to all the others. The imagination, the emotions, the aesthetic sense, even the very instincts of the half subconscient parts must be taken into the influence. Religion must lead man towards the suprarational, the spiritual truth and it must take the aid of the illumined reason on the way, but it cannot afford to neglect to call Godwards the rest of our complex nature. And it must take too each man where he stands and spiritualise him through what he can feel and not at once force on him something which he cannot yet grasp as a true and living power. That is the sense and aim of all those parts of Hinduism which are specially stigmatised as irrational or antirational by the positivist intelligence. But the European mind has failed to understand this plain necessity or has despised it. It insists on “purifying” religion, by the reason and not by the spirit, on “reforming” it, by the reason and not by the spirit. And we have seen what were the results of this kind of purification and reformation in Europe. The infallible outcome of that ignorant doctoring has been first to impoverish and then slowly to kill religion; the patient has fallen a victim to the treatment, while he might well have survived the disease! </p>
			<p class="Body-Text">The accusation of a want of ethical content is almost monstrously false, – it is the direct opposite of the truth; but we must look for its explanation in some kind of characteristic misunderstanding; for it is not new. <a id="_idIndexMarker167"></a>Hindu thought and literature might almost be accused of a tyrannously pervading ethical obsession; everywhere the ethical note recurs. The idea of the Dharma is, next to the idea of the Infinite, its major chord; Dharma, next to spirit, is its foundation of life. There is no ethical idea which it has not stressed, put in its most ideal and imperative form, enforced by teaching, injunction, parable, artistic creation, formative examples. Truth, honour, loyalty, fidelity, courage, chastity, love, long-suffering, self-sacrifice, harmlessness, forgiveness, compassion, benevolence, beneficence are its common themes, are in its view the very stuff of a right human life, the essence of man’s dharma. <a id="_idIndexMarker168"></a>Buddhism with its high and noble ethics, <a id="_idIndexMarker169"></a>Jainism with its austere ideal of self-conquest, Hinduism with its magnificent examples of all sides of the Dharma are not inferior in ethical teaching and practice to any religion or system, but rather take the highest rank and have had the strongest effective force. For the practice of these virtues in older times there is abundant internal and foreign evidence.”20</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">“<a id="_idIndexMarker170"></a>Morality is for the Western mind mostly a thing of outward conduct; but conduct for the Indian mind is only one means of expression and sign of a soul-state. Hinduism only incidentally strings together a number of commandments for observance, a table of moral laws; more deeply it enjoins a spiritual or ethical purity of the mind with action as one outward index. It says strongly enough, almost too strongly, ‘Thou shouldst not kill,’ but insists more firmly on the injunction, ‘Thou shalt not hate, thou shalt not yield to greed, anger or malice,’ for these are the roots of killing. And Hinduism admits relative standards, a wisdom too hard for the European intelligence. Non-injuring is the very highest of its laws, ahiṁsā paramo dharmaḥ; still it does not lay it down as a physical rule for the warrior, but insistently demands from him mercy, chivalry, respect for the non-belligerent, the weak, the unarmed, the vanquished, the prisoner, the wounded, the fugitive, and so escapes the unpracticality of a too absolutist rule for all life. A misunderstanding of this inwardness and this wise relativity is perhaps responsible for much misrepresentation. The Western ethicist likes to have a high standard as a counsel of perfection and is not too much concerned if it is honoured more by the breach than by the observance; Indian ethics puts up an equally high and often higher standard; but less concerned with high professions than with truth of life, it admits stages of progress and in the lower stages is satisfied if it can moralise as much as possible those who are not yet capable of the highest ethical concepts and practice. </p>
			<p class="Body-Text">All these criticisms of Hinduism are therefore either false in fact or invalid in their very nature.”21</p>
			<p class="commentary">‡ Sri Aurobindo has aptly answered here the charge of a lack of all moral worth and ethical substance levied against the Indian culture. Some of the aspects implicit in the charge and the response need to be pondered over so that we may get a still better perspective on the whole issue. Firstly, very often <a id="_idIndexMarker171"></a>morality and ethics are confused with true spirituality, while in reality, they have nothing much to do with it. At best, their utility is to curb the animalistic and unbridled vital propensities in man so that, instead of remaining grossly indulgent, he may rise above them a little. Also, morality, ethics, or some other virtues cannot be cultivated by beautiful discourses, for the vital in a man is a despot which is not in the habit of obeying any mental injunctions. Therefore, the chief aim of our education system should be to help the growing soul in acquiring some control over this lawless part and assist in the integral development of the whole being in conformity with its deepest self. But as things stand at present, the education system seems to be doing just the very opposite of what is expected of it. It only inflates the vital tendencies and, as a result, the vital gets swelled up at the expense of the other parts of our being and one becomes a slave of one’s lower appetites for the rest of one’s life. Regarding the role of <a id="_idIndexMarker172"></a>moral training in education Sri Aurobindo says, “You can impose a certain discipline on children, dress them into a certain mould, lash them into a desired path, but unless you can get their hearts and natures on your side, the conformity to this imposed rule becomes a hypocritical and heartless, a conventional, often a cowardly compliance. This is what is done in Europe, and it leads to that remarkable phenomenon known as the <a id="_idIndexMarker173"></a>sowing of wild oats as soon as the yoke of discipline at school and at home is removed, and to the social hypocrisy which is so large a feature of European life. Only what the man admires and accepts, becomes part of himself; the rest is a mask. He conforms to the discipline of society as he conformed to the moral routine of home and school, but considers himself at liberty to guide his real life, inner and private, according to his own likings and passions. ...The old Indian system of the guru commanding by his knowledge and sanctity the implicit obedience, perfect admiration, reverent emulation of the student was a far superior method of moral discipline.”(CWSA 1, 389-90) It should now become quite clear from these words of Sri Aurobindo that a living example is much more effective for moral training than any mental teachings. Truly speaking, it is only in and by the spiritual atmosphere and its influence that any real development of true virtues can take place. </p>
			<p class="commentary">Thus, the entire nation was surrounded by countless shining examples of great personalities with high moral virtues, such as self-sacrifice, long-suffering, chivalry, beneficence, compassion, and many-many others, who inspired the whole race of the time and continue to have a profound impact on the life and mentality of the people even to this day. Gandhiji mentions in his biography how he was so deeply moved and influenced by the character of King Harishchandra that he decided to practice it and try never to swerve from the path of truth as he understood it. The characters of Sri Rama, Devi Sita, and of other such high ones continue to inspire the whole country even to this day. All these high ideals and their uplifting influence greatly help both individuals and collectivities to rise above their grosser physical and vital propensities. But an example, however lofty, has its limitations. A person may feel much attracted to an example, be highly inspired by it, may even try to follow and grow into its likeness, but if the necessary dynamism is wanting, then it is quite unlikely that his fascination or effort will amount to much. Not only that, example in itself is rarely sufficient for any spiritual or deeper cultivation. Therefore, an example, though it may and does often have a great importance, is not as powerful and effective as spiritual influence. For, not only does it inspire a person to overcome his lower appetites and rise higher, it even gives him the necessary help to achieve it. Spiritual influence doesn’t stop at merely pointing to the goal, but it takes a person by the hand towards it. Indian culture had a deep understanding of the supreme importance of such forces in the cultivation of moral values. Any discerning eye can see in the ancient Indian literature, especially the epic literature, how great an insistence was laid upon building a truly sound character, and the result was that even the common people would not even think of doing anything contrary to the rightful conduct, dharma. The heights of cultivation to which each virtue has been taken in this culture is to be seen nowhere else.</p>
			<p class="commentary">As regarding morality and ethics, it is only in the light of a spiritual or deeper consciousness that one can have a true sense of their application. By itself, no moral standard, rule, principle or sacred scripture can help one arrive at the right choice at any point of time. There can truly be no fixed outer standards for morality, altruism, benevolence, love, and other such qualities. This is the reason why in India moral ideals and virtues have always been kept under a higher and multi-layered and plastic law, dharma – which varied according to <a id="_idIndexMarker174"></a>Desha (Place), Kala (Time) and Patra (Person). For example, it is only the dharma that can help one determine whether in the given circumstances forgiveness may be the right movement or else a show of valour and resistance and punishment or something in between may be needed. Even the qualities that at the mental level seem to be contradictory, such as humility and prowess, kindness and severity, and so on can find their rightful reconciliation in the dharma. If the mental ideals are not kept under the <a id="_idIndexMarker175"></a>yoke of dharma, they always tend towards exclusiveness. A flagrant example of this can be found in one of the episodes of Mahabharata where even in the presence of the greatest of the heroes of the time like Bhisma, Drona, and others, an attempt so wrong as to try to insult and disrobe Draupadi could be made, and being fettered to their narrow one-sided mental ideals all those elders and heroes sat as silent spectators of such a disgrace. This is the reason why Bhishma Pitamaha, Yudhisthira, and countless other such great, virtuous and righteous people, can at best be regarded as ethical personalities. It is only Lord Sri Krishna, not bound by any moral laws, who remains our true ideal. However unethical and immoral his acts and pastimes may appear to the one-sided modern intellect but still all our scriptures call him the Unfallen, the Infallible, the Sinless. This provides us some perspective of the Indian view about the truth or morality and ethics and their place in man’s life.</p>
			<p class="commentary">Qs. Sri Aurobindo here makes a remark about Hindu religion that it is “a non-dogmatic inclusive religion and would have taken even Islam and Christianity into itself, if they had tolerated the process”, then what does he mean by ‘if they had tolerated the process’?</p>
			<p class="commentary">Ans. As we have discussed earlier that all this many-sided and many-staged manifestation is as though only a partial manifestation of, and originated from, the Supreme Divine herself/himself. Each particular manifestation in it has its own special truth and place which it alone can manifest and occupy. Therefore, in the Indian culture not only the human beings, but even the creatures and the material objects were regarded as forms and expressions of that one Supreme Divine and were met in that spirit. Having a deep experience and perception of that Absolute Being, the Sanatana Dharma not only vindicated all possible ways for each of these phenomenal expressions – which are essentially the expressions of that Absolute Being alone – to get back to their source, but even provided a whole wide system for their swiftest arrival. In this endeavour it accepted not only the superconscient but even the half-conscient and inconscient parts of our being and tried to turn them all towards the Divine. In this Godward pursuit it could ill-afford to shut itself from any possible approach, therefore all philosophies, systems of yoga, experiences, realisations, etc. were admitted as the various ways or paths to the goal, and along with it, there was infinite room for still newer approaches to come. It is due to this large catholicity of this culture that even seemingly contradictory philosophies, systems of spiritual practices, tantra, and various others, have always flourished here in harmony. This spirit of all-inclusiveness can be glimpsed in the well-known formula of ‘Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam’, which means that ‘the whole world is one family.’ Along with this all-inclusiveness, there has always been another perception, accepted universally, that no philosophy or system, however high or wide, can ever confine or completely define the Divine, and any revelation, however comprehensively expressive of the truth, can at best be regarded as an expression of one of the infinite attributes of the Divine, but cannot claim itself to be the only and sovereign truth. Even Islam and Christianity would have been easily taken in into the all-inclusive order of <a id="_idIndexMarker176"></a>Sanatana Dharma if, regarding themselves as one of the numerous other possible ways of moving towards the Divine, they could have accepted to live in harmony with the others. But not only did they claim themselves to be the sole approaches to the Divine but, in their sharply exclusive spirit, went even so far as to try to impose themselves forcibly and violently on others. This spirit of intolerance being contrary to the all-inclusive spirit of the Veda, was entirely alien to the spirit of Sanatana Dharma, and for this reason, these religions remain rejected as some foreign element. According to Sri Aurobindo, only that which conforms with the synthetic, acquisitive, all-inclusive spirit of the Veda, can endure in the Indian culture. ‡</p>
			<h4 id="_idParaDest-14" class="Subhead3">(iv) Lack of Power and Vitality in Indian Culture</h4>
			<p class="Body-Text">A most common charge levied against the Indian culture is that it “..depresses the vital force, paralyses the will, gives no great or vigorous power, no high incentive, no fortifying and ennobling motive to human life.”22</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">Here the important question is that, “Apart from its transcendental aims, has it any pragmatic, non-ascetic, dynamic value, any power for expansion of life and for the right control of life? This is a question of central importance. For if it has nothing of this kind to give us, then whatever its other cultural greatness, it cannot live. It becomes an abnormal cis-Himalayan hot-house splendour which could subsist in its peninsular seclusion, but must perish in the keen and arduous air of the modern struggle of life. No anti-vital culture can survive. A too intellectual or too ethereal civilisation void of strong vital stimulus and motive must languish for want of sap and blood. A culture to be permanently and completely serviceable to man must give him something more than some kind of rare transcendental uprush towards an exceeding of all earthly life-values. It must do more even than adorn with a great curiosity of knowledge, science and philosophic enquiry or a rich light and blaze of art, poetry and architecture the long stability and orderly well-being of an old, ripe and humane society. All this Indian culture did in the past to a noble purpose. But it must satisfy too the tests of a progressive Life-power. There must be some inspiration for the terrestrial endeavour of man, an object, a stimulus, a force for development and a will to live. Whether or not our end is silence and Nirvana, a spiritual cessation or a material death, this is certain that the world itself is a mighty labour of a vast Life-Spirit and man the present doubtful crown on earth and the struggling but still unsuccessful present hero and protagonist of its endeavour or its drama. A great human culture must see this truth in some fullness; it must impart some conscious and ideal power of self-effectuation to this upward effort. It is not enough to found a stable base for life, not enough to adorn it, not enough to shoot up sublimely to summits beyond it; the greatness and growth of the race on earth must be our equal care. To miss this great intermediate reality is a capital imperfection and in itself a seal of failure. </p>
			<p class="Body-Text">Our critics will have it that the whole body of Indian culture bears the stamp of just such a failure. The Western impression has been that Hinduism is an entirely metaphysical and <a id="_idIndexMarker177"></a>other-worldly system dreaming of things beyond, oblivious of the now and here: a depressing sense of the unreality of life or an intoxication of the Infinite turns it away from any nobility, vitality and greatness of human aspiration and the earth’s labour. Its philosophy may be sublime, its religious spirit fervent, its ancient social system strong, symmetrical and stable, its literature and its art good in their own way, but the salt of life is absent, the breath of will-power, the force of a living endeavour. This new journalistic Apollo, our Archer who is out to cleave with his arrows the python coils of Indian barbarism, abounds in outcries in this sense. But, if that is so, evidently India can have done nothing great, contributed no invigorating power to human life, produced no men of mighty will, no potent personalities, no strong significant human lives, no vital human figures in art and poetry, no significant architecture and sculpture. And that is what our devil’s advocate tells us in graphic phrases. He tells us that there is in this religion and philosophy a general undervaluing of life and endeavour. Life is conceived as a shoreless expanse in which generations rise and fall as helplessly and purposelessly as waves in mid-ocean; the individual is everywhere dwarfed and depreciated; one solitary great character, Gautama <a id="_idIndexMarker178"></a>Buddha, who ‘perhaps never existed,’ is India’s sole contribution to the world’s pantheon, or for the rest a pale featureless Asoka. The characters of drama and poetry are lifeless exaggerations or puppets of supernatural powers; the art is empty of reality; the whole history of the civilisation makes a drab, effete, melancholy picture. There is no power of life in this religion and this philosophy, there is no breath of life in this history, there is no colour of life in this art and poetry; that is the blank result of Indian culture. Whoever has seen at first hand and felt the literature, followed the history, studied the civilisation of India, can see that this is a bitter misrepresentation, a violent caricature, an absurd falsehood. But it is an extreme and unscrupulous way of putting an impression often given to the European mind and, as before, we must see why different eyes see the same object in such different colours. It is the same primary misunderstanding that is at the root. India has lived and lived richly, splendidly, greatly, but with a different will in life from Europe. The idea and plan of her life have been peculiar to her temperament, original and unique. Her values are not easy to seize for an outsider and her highest things are easily open to hostile misrepresentation by the ignorant, precisely because they are too high for the normal untrained mind and apt to shoot beyond its limits.”23</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">In the next section we shall consider what lies at the root of the rationalistic misunderstanding of India and its culture – the stark difference between the Indian and the European conceptions of life and, as a result, the inability of the latter to understand the former’s masterful dealings with life.</p>
			<hr class="HorizontalRule-1" />
			<div class="_idFootnotes">
				<div id="footnote-005" class="_idFootnote" epub:type="footnote">
					<p class="Footnote"><a class="_idFootnoteAnchor _idGenColorInherit" href="BharatiyaSamskritiEnglishCommentary-10.xhtml#footnote-005-backlink">[3]</a>&#9;A huge, powerful, and overwhelming force. – Ed.</p>
				</div>
				<div id="footnote-004" class="_idFootnote" epub:type="footnote">
					<p class="Footnote"><a class="_idFootnoteAnchor _idGenColorInherit" href="BharatiyaSamskritiEnglishCommentary-10.xhtml#footnote-004-backlink">[4]</a>&#9;A female Hindu dancer, especially one at a southern Indian temple. – Ed.</p>
				</div>
				<div id="footnote-003" class="_idFootnote" epub:type="footnote">
					<p class="Footnote"><a class="_idFootnoteAnchor _idGenColorInherit" href="BharatiyaSamskritiEnglishCommentary-10.xhtml#footnote-003-backlink">[5]</a>&#9;Kamadhenu – the sacred Cow in Hindu mythology. Her other names include Sabala (the Spotted One) and Kapila (the Red One). – Ed.</p>
				</div>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
