<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>BharatiyaSamskritiEnglishCommentary-26</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="BharatiyaSamskritiEnglishCommentary-26" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h3 id="_idParaDest-46" class="Subhead2">B. The <a id="_idIndexMarker340"></a>Dharma – the Culture and the Ordering of the Ethical Nature</h3>
			<p class="Body-Text">“The whole right practice of life founded on this knowledge was in the view of Indian culture a Dharma, a living according to a just understanding and right view of self-culture, of the knowledge of things and life and of action in that knowledge. Thus each man and class and kind and species and each activity of soul, mind, life, body has its dharma. But the largest or at least most vitally important part of the Dharma was held to be the culture and ordering of the ethical nature of man. The ethical aspect of life, contrary to the amazingly ignorant observation of a certain type of critics, attracted a quite enormous amount of attention, occupied the greater part of Indian thought and writing not devoted to the things of pure knowledge and of the spirit and was so far pushed that there is no ethical formation or ideal which does not reach in it its highest conception and a certain divine absolutism of ideal practice. Indian thought took for granted, – though there are some remarkable speculations to the contrary, – the ethical nature of man and the ethical law of the world. It considered that man was justified in satisfying his desires, since that is necessary for the satisfaction and expansion of life, but not in obeying the dictates of desire as the law of his being; for in all things there is a greater law, each has not only its side of interest and desire, but its dharma or rule of right practice, satisfaction, expansion, regulation. The Dharma, then, fixed by the wise in the Shastra is the right thing to observe, the true rule of action. First in the web of Dharma comes the social law; for man’s life is only initially for his vital, personal, individual self, but much more imperatively for the community, though most imperatively of all for the greatest Self one in himself and in all beings, for God, for the Spirit. Therefore first the individual must subordinate himself to the communal self, though by no means bound altogether to efface himself in it as the extremists of the communal idea imagine. He must live according to the law of his nature harmonised with the law of his social type and class, for the nation and in a higher reach of his being – this was greatly stressed by the Buddhists – for humanity. Thus living and acting he could learn to transcend the social scale of the Dharma, practise without injuring the basis of life the ideal scale and finally grow into the liberty of the spirit, when rule and duty were not binding because he would then move and act in a highest free and immortal dharma of the divine nature. All these aspects of the Dharma were closely linked up together in a progressive unity. Thus, for an example, each of the four orders had its own social function and ethics, but also an ideal rule for the growth of the pure ethical being, and every man by observing his dharma and turning his action Godwards could grow out of it into the spiritual freedom. But behind all dharma and ethics was put, not only as a safeguard but as a light, a religious sanction, a reminder of the continuity of life and of man’s long pilgrimage through many births, a reminder of the Gods and planes beyond and of the Divine, and above it all the vision of a last stage of perfect comprehension and unity and of divine transcendence.”63</p>
			<p class="commentary">‡ To effectively link the life of the human being and its powers with the highest spiritual ideal, Indian culture, on the one hand, provided the authority of the Rishi and the shastra to instruct and guide each and every detail of life, and on the other, strove to cultivate the ethical nature of man by laying down relative Dharmas so as to make him capable of following the instructions or the guidance of the Rishi and the Shastra. To facilitate the general culture and development of the ethical being of man, the entire culture was surrounded by countless shining examples of great personalities in whom the moral virtues and ideals were carried to their ultimate. The Dharmas, being relative, would prescribe the right code of conduct in accordance with the state and stage of the inner and outer development of an individual and society which would evolve until, finally, they reached a stage where they became capable of living in the freedom of the soul. Thus, the whole system was geared towards transmuting the thinking, ethical, aesthetic, hedonistic, external parts of the being into effective instruments of the soul for its self-expression – not by suppression, but by proper cultivation under the yoke of Dharma. ‡</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
