<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>BharatiyaSamskritiEnglishCommentary-37</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="BharatiyaSamskritiEnglishCommentary-37" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h3 id="_idParaDest-57" class="Subhead2">D. The <a id="_idIndexMarker356"></a>Sounding of the Extremes and the <a id="_idIndexMarker357"></a>Synthetic Impulse</h3>
			<p class="Body-Text">“The European eye is struck in Indian spiritual thought by the <a id="_idIndexMarker358"></a>Buddhistic and illusionist denial of life. But it must be remembered that this is only one side of its philosophic tendency which assumed exaggerated proportions only in the period of decline. In itself too that was simply one result, in one direction, of a tendency of the Indian mind which is common to all its activities, the impulse to follow each motive, each specialisation of motive even, spiritual, intellectual, ethical, vital, to its extreme point and to sound its utmost possibility. Part of its innate direction was to seek in each not only for its fullness of detail, but for its infinite, its absolute, its profoundest depth or its highest pinnacle. It knew that without a “fine excess” we cannot break down the limits which the dull temper of the normal mind opposes to knowledge and thought and experience; and it had in seeking this point a boundless courage and yet a sure tread. Thus it carried each tangent of philosophic thought, each line of spiritual experience to its farthest point, and chose to look from that farthest point at all existence, so as to see what truth or power such a view could give it. It tried to know the whole of divine nature and to see too as high as it could beyond nature and into whatever there might be of supradivine. When it formulated a spiritual atheism, it followed that to its acme of possible vision. When, too, it indulged in materialistic atheism, – though it did that only with a side glance, as the freak of an insatiable intellectual curiosity, – yet it formulated it straight out, boldly and nakedly, without the least concession to idealism or ethicism.</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">Everywhere we find this tendency. The ideals of the Indian mind have included the height of self-assertion of the human spirit and its thirst of independence and mastery and possession and the height also of its self-abnegation, dependence and submission and self-giving. In life the ideal of opulent living and the ideal of poverty were carried to the extreme of regal splendour and the extreme of satisfied nudity. Its intuitions were sufficiently clear and courageous not to be blinded by its own most cherished ideas and fixed habits of life. If it was obliged to stereotype caste as the symbol of its social order, it never quite forgot, as the caste-spirit is apt to forget, that the human soul and the human mind are beyond caste. For it had seen in the lowest human being the Godhead, Narayana. It emphasised distinctions only to turn upon them and deny all distinctions. If all its political needs and circumstances compelled it at last to exaggerate the monarchical principle and declare the divinity of the king and to abolish its earlier republican city states and independent federations as too favourable to the centrifugal tendency, if therefore it could not develop democracy, yet it had the democratic idea, applied it in the village, in council and municipality, within the caste, was the first to assert a divinity in the people and could cry to the monarch at the height of his power, “O king, what art thou but the head servant of the demos?” Its idea of the golden age was a free spiritual anarchism. Its spiritual extremism could not prevent it from fathoming through a long era the life of the senses and its enjoyments, and there too it sought the utmost richness of sensuous detail and the depths and intensities of sensuous experience. Yet it is notable that this pursuit of the most opposite extremes never resulted in disorder; and its most hedonistic period offers nothing that at all resembles the unbridled corruption which a similar tendency has more than once produced in Europe. For the Indian mind is not only spiritual and ethical, but intellectual and artistic, and both the rule of the intellect and the rhythm of beauty are hostile to the spirit of chaos. In every extreme the Indian spirit seeks for a law in that extreme and a rule, measure and structure in its application. Besides, this sounding of extremes is balanced by a still more ingrained characteristic, the synthetical tendency, so that having pushed each motive to its farthest possibility the Indian mind returns always towards some fusion of the knowledge it has gained and to a resulting harmony and balance in action and institution. Balance and rhythm which the Greeks arrived at by self-limitation, India arrived at by its sense of intellectual, ethical and aesthetic order and the synthetic impulse of its mind and life.</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">I have dwelt on these facts because they are apt to be ignored by those who look only at certain sides of the Indian mind and spirit which are most prominent in the last epochs. By insisting only upon these we get an inaccurate or incomplete idea of the past of India and of the integral meaning of its civilisation and the spirit that animated it. The present is only a last deposit of the past at a time of ebb; it has no doubt also to be the starting-point of the future, but in this present all that was in India’s past is still dormant, it is not destroyed; it is waiting there to assume new forms. The decline was the ebb-movement of a creative spirit which can only be understood by seeing it in the full tide of its greatness; the renascence is the return of the tide and it is the same spirit that is likely to animate it, although the forms it takes may be quite new. To judge therefore the possibilities of the renascence, the powers that it may reveal and the scope that it may take, we must dismiss the idea that the tendency of metaphysical abstraction is the one note of the Indian spirit which dominates or inspires all its cadences. Its real key-note is the tendency of spiritual realisation, not cast at all into any white monotone, but many-faceted, many-coloured, as supple in its adaptability as it is intense in its highest pitches. The note of spirituality is dominant, initial, constant, always recurrent; it is the support of all the rest. The first <a id="_idIndexMarker359"></a>age of India’s greatness was a <a id="_idIndexMarker360"></a>spiritual age when she sought passionately for the truth of existence through the intuitive mind and through an inner experience and interpretation both of the psychic and the physical existence. The stamp put on her by that beginning she has never lost, but rather always enriched it with fresh spiritual experience and discovery at each step of the national life. Even in her hour of decline it was the one thing she could never lose.</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">But this spiritual tendency does not shoot upward only to the abstract, the hidden and the intangible; it casts its rays downward and outward to embrace the multiplicities of thought and the richness of life. Therefore the second long epoch of India’s greatness was an age of the intellect, the ethical sense, the dynamic will in action enlightened to formulate and govern life in the lustre of spiritual truth. After the age of the Spirit, the age of the Dharma; after the Veda and Upanishads, the heroic centuries of action and social formation, typal construction and thought and philosophy, when the outward forms of Indian life and culture were fixed in their large lines and even their later developments were being determined in the seed. The great classical age of Sanskrit culture was the flowering of this intellectuality into curiosity of detail in the refinements of scholarship, science, art, literature, politics, sociology, mundane life. We see at this time too the sounding not only of aesthetic, but of emotional and sensuous, even of vital and sensual experience. But the old spirituality reigned behind all this mental and all this vital activity, and its later period, the post-classical, saw a lifting up of the whole lower life and an impressing upon it of the values of the spirit. This was the sense of the Puranic and Tantric systems and the religions of Bhakti. Later Vaishnavism, the last fine flower of the Indian spirit, was in its essence the taking up of the aesthetic, emotional and sensuous being into the service of the spiritual. It completed the curve of the cycle.</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">The <a id="_idIndexMarker361"></a>evening of decline which followed the completion of the curve was prepared by three movements of retrogression. First there is, comparatively, a sinking of that superabundant vital energy and a fading of the joy of life and the joy of creation. Even in the decline this energy is still something splendid and extraordinary and only for a very brief period sinks nearest to a complete torpor; but still a comparison with its past greatness will show that the decadence was marked and progressive. Secondly, there is a rapid cessation of the old free intellectual activity, a slumber of the scientific and the critical mind as well as the creative intuition; what remains becomes more and more a repetition of ill-understood fragments of past knowledge. There is a petrification of the mind and life in the relics of the forms which a great intellectual past had created. Old authority and rule become rigidly despotic and, as always then happens, lose their real sense and spirit. Finally, spirituality remains but burns no longer with the large and clear flame of knowledge of former times, but in intense jets and in a dispersed action which replaces the old magnificent synthesis and in which certain spiritual truths are emphasised to the neglect of others. This diminution amounts to a certain failure of the great endeavour which is the whole meaning of Indian culture, a falling short in the progress towards the perfect spiritualisation of the mind and the life. The beginnings were superlative, the developments very great, but at a certain point where progress, adaptation, a new flowering should have come in, the old civilisation stopped short, partly drew back, partly lost its way. The essential no doubt remained and still remains in the heart of the race and not only in its habits and memories, but in its action it was covered up in a great smoke of confusion.”7</p>
			<p class="commentary">‡ Only a broad perspective on the four great powers of the Indian spirit can give one a glimpse of the visible action of these powers and of the various forms that they assume in the course of their manifestation and their interrelationships as well as their true justification. Without this perspective, one is helplessly lost in a maze of apparently meaningless minutiae without a clue and stumbles about among false and partial conclusions missing entirely the deeper significance of those forms. It is usually for this reason that most of even those people who try to demonstrate the greatness of this culture out of a deeply sympathetic outlook, not to mention those with a thoroughly hostile view, base their estimate on data that hardly reveal the core of its greatness. To obviate lamentable muddles, a true vision of what is the essence of greatness of this culture is indispensable, especially for those who are keen on entering the essential spirit of it.</p>
			<p class="commentary">Some of the points contained in Sri Aurobindo’s deliberation on the fourth power of the Indian spirit require further consideration. First of all, what was the true basis of the impulse to follow a thing to its extreme point and sound its utmost possibility? the logic behind it? The answer to this problem lay in the deep spiritual intuition of Indian culture that firmly held to this fundamental perception that the Supreme being, the Absolute is indescribable by any name or definite conception that the human mind can attribute to it. Therefore when the limited mental consciousness tries to express the Absolute in its own terms, there inevitably arise various ultimate contradictory perceptions about the nature of the Absolute, such as Existent and non-existent, Infinite and finite, Conscient and Inconscient, etc. accompanied by an impulse to follow each of these attributes to their extreme until it can be vividly experienced and transcending even these, the mind may arrive at some higher synthesis of these opposites. Man’s deeply ingrained nature of being always discontented, even with the highest possible achievements, is essentially a reflection of the insatiable urge of the Soul to break all resistances or obstacles and regain its own true nature. It is therefore a common characteristic of all the various philosophies and yoga systems in India to follow any given experience or approach to the Divine to its extreme and try to perceive the Divine and define this world and existence from that standpoint. It is indeed this urge to sound the extreme limits of the spirit, world and existence that has greatly extended the field of human thought, experience and action. But the inert and obscure outer nature of man content within its narrow and petty confines instinctively resists any change in the limited framework of its ordinary life. A fine excess is therefore always necessary to break this dead resistance of the lower nature and open novel dimensions and possibilities. It is this urge for an ever deeper exploration into the secrets of matter that has enabled physical science to have greater mastery over physical nature. But more than any outer exploration of the physical world and life, this culture explored profound spiritual, inner and psychological worlds and existences to their extremes of which the physical world and existence are mere derivatives. Thus, there hardly remains any aspect of man’s subjective and objective existence which has not been followed by this culture to its ultimate heights and depths.</p>
			<p class="commentary">But this tendency of sounding the extremes can truly exist only when it is accompanied by a synthetic impulse that alone can provide a firm basis for all possible extremes to harmoniously dwell together. After all, a synthesis that doesn’t have the necessary wideness to embrace the most extreme or discordant elements, cannot be a truly comprehensive synthesis in the true sense of the word. Nor should this synthesis be confused with an amalgamation of different things or components with no unifying element. It is the essential Spirit, the fire that burns in the spiritual heart of this culture that turns even the most extreme forms into those consistent with its original Vedic spirit and synthesises them all in that spirit. The tendency of extremes, lacking some wider synthetic spirit, often leads to serious consequences, and true spirit of synthesis exists only in the deeper parts of our being. Spirituality and the integral Vedic synthesis in the Indian culture was the reason why, right from the beginning, this culture could confidently take each idea, strand to its ultimate consummation. It knew that the Spirit is the true foundation of all and if firmly rooted in it, even the seemingly antagonistic elements can be triumphantly synthesized. ‡</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
