<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>BharatiyaSamskritiEnglishCommentary-7</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="BharatiyaSamskritiEnglishCommentary-7" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h3 id="_idParaDest-7" class="Subhead2">A. Leading Ideas</h3>
			<p class="Body-Text">The rationalistic critic’s most serious charge against the effective value of Indian philosophy is that “it turns away from life, nature, vital will and the effort of man upon earth. It denies all value to life; it leads not towards the study of nature, but away from it. It expels all volitional individuality; it preaches the unreality of the world, detachment from terrestrial interests, the unimportance of the life of the moment compared with the endless chain of past and future existences. It is an enervating metaphysic tangled up with false notions of pessimism, asceticism, karma and reincarnation, all of them ideas fatal to that supreme spiritual thing, volitional individuality. This is a grotesquely exaggerated and false notion of Indian culture and philosophy, got up by presenting one side only of the Indian mind in colours of a sombre emphasis, after a manner which I suppose Mr. Archer has learned from the modern masters of realism. But in substance and spirit it is a fairly correct statement of the notions which the European mind has formed in the past about the character of Indian thought and culture, sometimes in ignorance, sometimes in defiance of the evidence. For a time even it managed to impress some strong shadow of this error on the mind of educated India.”11</p>
			<p class="commentary">‡ To say that by putting an almost exclusive value on spirituality, Indian culture – under the influence of its leading philosophical ideas – turned away from life and has, therefore, been neglectful of the material base, is patently false. Sri Aurobindo makes this clear when he talks of the double aspect of Hindu temperament. According to him, “The Hindu has been always decried as a dreamer &amp; mystic. There is truth in the charge but also a singular inaccuracy. The <a id="_idIndexMarker099"></a>Hindu mind is in one sense the most concrete in the world; it seeks after abstractions, but is not satisfied with them so long as they remain abstractions. But to make the objects of this world concrete, to realise the things that are visited by sun &amp; rain or are, at their most ethereal, sublimated figures of fine matter, that is comparatively easy, but the Hindu is not contented till he has seized things behind the sunlight also as concrete realities. He is passionate for the infinite, the unseen, the spiritual, but he will not rest satisfied with conceiving them, he insists on mapping the infinite, on seeing the unseen, on visualising the spiritual. The <a id="_idIndexMarker100"></a>Celt throws his imagination into the infinite and is rewarded with beautiful phantoms out of which he evolves a pale, mystic and intangible poetry; the Hindu sends his heart &amp; his intellect &amp; eventually his whole being after his imagination and for his reward he has seen God and interpreted existence. It is this double aspect of <a id="_idIndexMarker101"></a>Hindu temperament, extreme spirituality successfully attempting to work in harmony with extreme materialism, which is the secret of our religion, our life &amp; our literature, our civilisation.”(CWSA 1: 212) ‡</p>
			<p class="Body-Text"> Ancient Indian thought admitted that “....material and economic capacity and prosperity are a necessary, though not the highest or most essential part of the total effort of human civilisation. In that respect India throughout her long period of cultural activity can claim equality with any ancient or mediaeval country. No people before modern times reached a higher splendour of wealth, commercial prosperity, material appointment, social organisation. That is the record of history, of ancient documents, of contemporary witnesses; to deny it is to give evidence of a singular prepossession and obfuscation of the view, an imaginative, or is it unimaginative, misreading of present actuality into past actuality. The splendour of Asiatic and not least of Indian prosperity, the wealth of Ormuz and of Ind, the ‘barbaric doors rough with gold’, barbaricae postes squalentes auro, were once stigmatised by the less opulent West as a sign of barbarism. Circumstances are now strangely reversed; the opulent barbarism and a much less artistic ostentation of wealth are to be found in London, New York and Paris, and it is the nakedness of India and the squalor of her poverty which are flung in her face as evidence of the worthlessness of her culture.”12</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">“To say that Indian philosophy has led away from the study of nature is to state a gross unfact and to ignore the magnificent history of Indian civilisation. If by nature is meant physical Nature, the plain truth is that no nation before the modern epoch carried scientific research so far and with such signal success as India of ancient times. That is a truth which lies on the face of history for all to read; it has been brought forward with great force and much wealth of detail by Indian scholars and scientists of high eminence, but it was already known and acknowledged by European savants who had taken the trouble to make a comparative study in the subject. Not only was India in the first rank in mathematics, astronomy, chemistry, medicine, surgery, all the branches of physical knowledge which were practised in ancient times, but she was, along with the Greeks, the teacher of the Arabs from whom Europe recovered the lost habit of scientific enquiry and got the basis from which modern science started. In many directions India had the priority of discovery, – to take only two striking examples among a multitude, the decimal notation in mathematics or the perception that the earth is a moving body in astronomy, – calā pṛthvī sthirā bhāti, the earth moves and only appears to be still, said the Indian astronomer many centuries before Galileo. This great development would hardly have been possible in a nation whose thinkers and men of learning were led by its metaphysical tendencies to turn away from the study of nature. A remarkable feature of the Indian mind was a close attention to the things of life, a disposition to observe minutely its salient facts, to systematise and to found in each department of it a science, <a id="_idIndexMarker102"></a>Shastra, well-founded scheme and rule. That is at least a good beginning of the scientific tendency and not the sign of a culture capable only of unsubstantial metaphysics.</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">It is perfectly true that <a id="_idIndexMarker103"></a>Indian science came abruptly to a halt somewhere about the thirteenth century and a period of darkness and inactivity prevented it from proceeding forward or sharing at once in the vast modern development of scientific knowledge. But this was not due to any increase or intolerance of the metaphysical tendency calling the national mind away from physical nature. It was part of a general cessation of new intellectual activity, for philosophy too ceased to develop almost at the same time. The last great original attempts at spiritual philosophy are dated only a century or two later than the names of the last great original scientists. It is true also that Indian metaphysics did not attempt, as modern philosophy has attempted without success, to read the truth of existence principally by the light of the truths of physical Nature. This ancient wisdom founded itself rather upon an inner experimental psychology and a profound psychic science, India’s special strength, – but study of mind too and of our inner forces is surely study of nature, – in which her success was greater than in physical knowledge. This she could not but do, since it was the spiritual truth of existence for which she was seeking; nor is any really great and enduring philosophy possible except on this basis. It is true also that the harmony she established in her culture between philosophical truth and truth of psychology and religion was not extended in the same degree to the truth of physical Nature; physical Science had not then arrived at the great universal generalisations which would have made and are now making that synthesis entirely possible. Nevertheless from the beginning, from as early as the thought of the Vedas, the Indian mind had recognised that the same general laws and powers hold in the spiritual, the psychological and the physical existence. It discovered too the omnipresence of life, affirmed the evolution of the soul in Nature from the vegetable and the animal to the human form, asserted on the basis of philosophic intuition and spiritual and psychological experience many of the truths which modern Science is reaffirming from its own side of the approach to knowledge. These things too were not the results of a barren and empty metaphysics, not the inventions of bovine navel-gazing dreamers.”13</p>
			<p class="commentary">‡ To get the right perspective on the point under discussion it is necessary that the charge of the critic be considered in both its positive and negative aspects. To begin with, if the charge against Indian culture, that the whole of its philosophy discourages the dynamism of life, disregards worldly interests and personal volition and lays stress upon other-worldliness and inaction, were true, – although in his answer to this condemnation Sri Aurobindo has already proved its baselessness and the growing evidence only makes his testimony irrefutable – then how is it that a culture unconcerned with worldly life and bent on escaping from it could have made unparalleled accomplishments not only in the field of spirit but in all other fields too? If, despite having disregarded the material world, it has still secured higher and greater achievements – qualitatively and quantitatively – as compared to any other material culture preoccupied exclusively with the development of the material world to make the best it can of the ephemeral existence, it is a sign of supreme greatness of this culture, not of any inferiority. The mathematical tradition in India goes back to <a id="_idIndexMarker104"></a>Sulba Sutras (around 800 BCE) and it is a well-established fact that the most important mathematical contribution of ancient India to the world is the invention of the decimal system of numeration, including the number zero. Even the most complex rules of modern mathematics can be found in Vedic mathematics prevalent in India even before mathematics had emerged in rest of the world. The decimal system, also known as the Hindu-Arabic numeral system, was invented in India. The unique feature of this system is the use of nine digits and a symbol zero to represent all the integral numbers by assigning a place value to the digits. Without this numeral system, no development of modern mathematics and the subsequent development of modern science and civilisations would have been possible. Similarly, in metallurgy, chemistry, surgery, Ayurveda, astronomy, architecture, city planning, bridge building, boat making, and numerous other areas the Indian culture has been the pioneer. But ignoring these undeniable facts, when a critique of this culture tries to prove this culture to be barbaric, uncivilized and poor, he obviously overlooks the question that why after all, the Muslim and the European invaders were so eager to discover the shortest sea routes to get to such a savage land? The already available and still growing large body of evidence of the looting and destruction perpetrated by these invaders irrefutably testify to the unimaginable opulence of this culture. Neither is there any possibility of charging this account with partiality, exaggeration, prejudice, or false statement, for we get it – either directly or as a contextual reference – through the books, letters, or documents written either by western writers, foreign travelers in India, or the immediate Muslim and English officials. In the multitude of all these records of Indian history, the certainty that emerges is the abundance of material wealth, the powerful application of human energy in all the walks of life. One of the famous books from among the various others on the subject of the plundering of India, ‘The <a id="_idIndexMarker105"></a>Economic History of India Under Early <a id="_idIndexMarker106"></a>British Rule’<span id="footnote-002-backlink"><a class="_idFootnoteLink _idGenColorInherit" href="BharatiyaSamskritiEnglishCommentary-7.xhtml#footnote-002">[1]</a></span> by Mr. <a id="_idIndexMarker107"></a>Ramesh Chandra Dutta, a lecturer of Indian history at London University College, reveals, by providing incontrovertible detailed data, on how the foreign lands had flourished at the expense of Indian blood. Here are some excerpts from this book. “…a change came over India under the rule of the East India Company. They considered India as a vast estate or plantation, the profits of which were to be withdrawn from India and deposited in Europe. They reserved all the high appointments in India for their own nominees seeking a lucrative career in the East. They bought their merchandise out of the revenues of India, and sold it in Europe for their own profit. They vigorously exacted from India a high interest on their stock-in-trade. In one shape or another all that could be raised in India by an excessive taxation flowed to Europe, after paying for a starved administration.” (pp. xii)</p>
			<p class="commentary">““What are the causes of this intense <a id="_idIndexMarker108"></a>poverty and these repeated famines in India? Superficial explanations have been offered one after another, and have been rejected on close examination. It was said that the population increased rapidly in India, and that such increase must necessarily lead to famines; it is found on inquiry that the population has never increased in India at the rate of England, and that during the last ten years it has altogether ceased to increase. It was said that the Indian cultivators were careless and improvident, and that those who did not know how to save when there was plenty, must perish when there was want; but it is known to men who have lived all their lives among these cultivators, that there is not a more abstemious, a more thrifty, a more frugal race of peasantry on earth. It was said that the Indian money-lender was the bane of India, and by his fraud and extortion kept the tillers of the soil in a chronic state of indebtedness; but the inquiries of the latest Famine Commission have revealed that the cultivators of India are forced under the thralldom of money-lenders by the rigidity of the Government revenue demand. It was said that in a country where the people depended almost entirely on their crops, they must starve when the crops failed in years of drought; but the crops in India, as a whole, have never failed, there has never been a single year when the food supply of the country was insufficient for the people, and there must be something wrong, when failure in a single province brings on a famine, and the people are unable to buy their supplies from neighbouring provinces rich in harvests.” (pp. vi-vii) But despite high death rates and destitute conditions, there was no easing out on the collection of land taxes. In his book ‘Corporations that changed the world’ <a id="_idIndexMarker109"></a>Nick Robins writes “Cornelius Walford calculated that in the 120 years of <a id="_idIndexMarker110"></a>British rule there had been 34 <a id="_idIndexMarker111"></a>famines in India, compared with only 17 recorded famines in the entire previous two millennia.” (p. 90, Publisher: Pluto Press, London)</p>
			<p class="commentary">Even after enduring a yoke of more than six hundred years of foreign rule India was, even materially, the most developed country of the world until the mid 1800’s. “Samuel Huntington of Harvard university writes that in 1750, India had 25 per cent of the world’s manufacturing output while Europe and America combined had less than 18 percent. But by 1900, after a hundred and fifty years of British rule, India’s manufacturing output had collapsed to less than 2 percent whereas America and the West combined had 84 percent of the world’s share. He writes:– ‘The Industrial revolution of the West was done at the expense of de-industrialisation of the colonies’.”<span id="footnote-001-backlink"><a class="_idFootnoteLink _idGenColorInherit" href="BharatiyaSamskritiEnglishCommentary-7.xhtml#footnote-001">[2]</a></span> During the first 125 years of British rule more than 30 million Indians (more than 10 percent of the total population) died of starvation. During the same period the export of wheat and rice from India to Great Britain increased about 25 times. Even in the face of such cruel physical subjugation, the achievement of the Indian culture on the planes of mind and spirit continued to be so significant that in spite of the highly motivated attempts of the Western intellectuals, educationists and missionaries who have been trying very hard to undermine Indian religion and culture, it has not only survived but even thrived and has been increasingly penetrating and winning hearts and minds in the West. But in the face of such imposing accounts of opulence and greatness, the question that invariably arises is that if these accounts of the greatness of this culture are true then why did it have to suffer such violent relentless attacks, humiliation and subjugation at the hands of the foreign invaders? Was it only a spiritually advanced culture, and politically utterly incompetent? All these and other such questions, misgivings, and issues will be aptly dealt with and resolved in the closing chapter of this book on the Indian polity in the light of Sri Aurobindo. When viewed from the right perspective not only will it be apparent to us how the legend of Indian political incompetence has arisen from a false view of the historical development and an insufficient knowledge of the ancient past of the country but, even more, we will be able to see how its achievements even in the field of politics have been unthinkably great and unparalleled.</p>
			<p class="commentary">The great achievements of the Indian culture are now well-known and the ongoing researches and their results only add to the details of those achievements. In the face of such records of splendour and material well-being – especially before the establishment of the rule of the British East India Company – how is it that most foreigners have, almost always, gotten a strong impression of the presence of an <a id="_idIndexMarker112"></a>ascetic tendency in this culture? If this is true – which undeniably seems so – then we need to look deeper to see how these entirely opposite tendencies have existed simultaneously in this culture without doing any harm to each other or, rather, seem to have been supporting each other?</p>
			<p class="commentary">Firstly, it can be clearly seen that among other tendencies, the <a id="_idIndexMarker113"></a>other-worldly or ascetic tendency too can always be seen in this culture which never shied away from its insistence on the pure spirit and soul as the only true reality. This ascetic view takes man far from the narrow confines of the petty outer satisfactions to things vaster and greater in potency. It holds that the mind, life and body are only outer instruments or coverings of something that is greater and which alone gives them their importance and sustenance, otherwise in themselves these instruments are empty of significance. Therefore the ultimate purpose of life is to identify with that supreme truth of one’s being and to be released from the illusion of the view which gives undue importance to the outer existence and its appearances. The Kena Upanishad declares that ‘That is the divine Brahman and not this which men here adore.’ Throughout the Puranas also we find described in superlatives the much greater splendour and opulence of the various higher and subtler worlds, as compared to that of the earth. In Bhagawat Purana along with the other aspects, this turn is inherent and becomes very explicit at places. The idea of the transience and illusoriness of the world and also of a series of past and future lives is a common theme or undercurrent of the bulk of Indian literature. It is for this reason that to a materialistic view, which is focused exclusively on the preservation and maintenance of the physical body and the fulfilment of its animal appetites and, therefore, gives only secondary importance to the fulfilment even of the vital and mind, the ideas of transience and illusoriness of this world seem contrary to its conception of the fulfilment of the individual and the collectivity. </p>
			<p class="commentary">The mistake of the critics – inevitable in one form or the other when one is full of a censorious spirit – lies in giving an undue and central place to what they call the “other-worldly” tendency specially witnessed during the decadence of the last few centuries. To understand this seemingly excessive stress on asceticism during this period we must look deeply into its psychological necessity – as pointed out by Sri Aurobindo and Swami Vivekananda – for the Indian people in the presence of a wholesale material deprivation and starvation perpetrated by the British. The soul of the people – denied any room for expression in the external (material) life – naturally took psychological refuge in the ascetic tendency to survive and save itself from extinction, for this was the one field which the oppressors shied away from entering. And, as pointed out by Sri Aurobindo, this (its innate spirituality) was the one thing that Indian culture could never lose even in its darkest hours. </p>
			<p class="commentary">During the period of its material well-being before the coming of the foreign invaders – especially the British – the ascetic tendency in this country – though always present – was no more than an important, and even a necessary, strand or facet of its endeavour to spiritualise human life. To fully spiritualise human life all its powers – knowledge, will, love and ananda – must be turned towards the Divine and be consecrated to it by the power of the soul, and this has been the central motive of the Indian culture throughout.</p>
			<p class="commentary">An integral and wholesale pursuit of spirituality by this culture had given rise to three other (besides spirituality) powers – to be discussed in detail in the next chapter – of the ancient Indian spirit. These are, namely: (i) Stupendous vitality, (ii) Strong Intellectuality, and (iii) The synthetic impulse of mind and life. In an unhindered working of these powers lies the secret that is behind the extraordinary richness of life and material opulence of this culture.</p>
			<p class="commentary">In the material culture of the present, <a id="_idIndexMarker114"></a>work is looked upon as a disutility, for which a person needs to be compensated. This is an obscuration of the tamasic nature and amounts to a perversity. Exercise of will, which is behind all the inner and outer achievements, is one of the greatest sources of joy and fulfilment in life as will be affirmed by any mature and sensible accounting and understanding of human life. When the motive behind the exercising of will is love and consecration to the Divine – present behind all masks of form and personality – all action takes on a very different colour and tends to become incomparably great in quality and quantity. India, during its long history, never lacked in the visible presence of a good number of people with such consecrated hearts. This seems to be the principal reason behind the <a id="_idIndexMarker115"></a>stupendous vitality of Indian culture and the secret of its great achievements in every sphere of human life. One gets such a joy in performing consecrated acts that it is virtually impossible to stop one from engaging into these all the time. The works of a supreme quality get done automatically in such a state of self-forgetfulness. In India, the greatest achievements in the fields of art, music, literature and even politics seem to have been done by people moved by such a deeper psychology – Yogah Karmasu Kaushalam. As pointed out by Sri Aurobindo, the inherent tendency in India of exclusiveness and carrying the issues, in any field of endeavour, – including asceticism – to their extremes in its pursuit did not at all deter it from making almost superhuman achievements in most of the fields due to its characteristic synthetic impulse of mind and life. ‡</p>
			<hr class="HorizontalRule-1" />
			<div class="_idFootnotes">
				<div id="footnote-002" class="_idFootnote" epub:type="footnote">
					<p class="Footnote"><a class="_idFootnoteAnchor _idGenColorInherit" href="BharatiyaSamskritiEnglishCommentary-7.xhtml#footnote-002-backlink">[1]</a> Published by: KEGAN PAUL, TEENCH, TRUBNER &amp; CO. Ltd., 6th Edition</p>
				</div>
				<div id="footnote-001" class="_idFootnote" epub:type="footnote">
					<p class="Footnote"><a class="_idFootnoteAnchor _idGenColorInherit" href="BharatiyaSamskritiEnglishCommentary-7.xhtml#footnote-001-backlink">[2]</a> M. Nadkarni, India’s Spiritual Destiny, Sri Aurobindo Society, Pondicherry, Page 32</p>
				</div>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
