<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>BharatiyaSamskritiEnglishCommentary-23</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="BharatiyaSamskritiEnglishCommentary-23" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h3 id="_idParaDest-36" class="Subhead2">H. The Dynamic Formulation of Indian Religious Culture</h3>
			<p class="Body-Text">“The past dealings of Indian religion with life must be judged according to the stages of its progress; each age of its movement must be considered on its own basis. But throughout it consistently held to two perceptions that showed great practical wisdom and a fine spiritual tact.”53</p>
			<p class="commentary">‡ After having illuminated the various outer and inner forms that the Indian religion has taken during the different stages through which it passed, Sri Aurobindo now moves on to deliberate upon how this religion could make its aim of leading a man from his present unregenerate stage to self-realisation so effective in practice.</p>
			<p class="commentary">As we have been discussing from the beginning, Indian culture has always had a deeper view of existence and looked upon a human being as a soul that, in this terrestrial manifestation, has put on a personality made up of mind, life and body for its self-expression. But rather than regarding it as some sublime conception void of any practical bearing on life, when a culture moves on to erect a comprehensive collective system that can most effectively — swiftly and integrally — lead both an individual and the collectivity to the realisation of this ideal, inevitably there will arise some fundamental perceptions about the complexities of inner and outer nature of both an individual and the society. Here, Sri Aurobindo sheds light on how this culture held consistently to these fundamental perceptions and how it put them into effect. ‡</p>
			<h4 id="_idParaDest-37" class="Subhead3">(i) The <a id="_idIndexMarker326"></a>First Perception</h4>
			<p class="Body-Text">“First, it saw that the approach to the spirit cannot be sudden, simple and immediate for all individuals or for the community of men; it must come ordinarily or at least at first through a gradual culture, training, progress. There must be an enlarging of the natural life accompanied by an uplifting of all its motives; a growing hold upon it of the higher rational, psychic and ethical powers must prepare and lead it towards a higher spiritual law.”54</p>
			<h4 id="_idParaDest-38" class="Subhead3">(ii) The <a id="_idIndexMarker327"></a>Second Perception</h4>
			<p class="Body-Text">“But the Indian religious mind saw too at the same time that if its greater aim was to be fruitful and the character of its culture imperative, there must be throughout and at every moment some kind of insistence on the spiritual motive. And for the mass of men this means always some kind of religious influence. That pervasive insistence was necessary in order that from the beginning some power of the universal inner truth, some ray from the real reality of our existence might cast its light or at least its sensible if subtle influence on the natural life of man. Human life must be induced to flower, naturally in a way, but at the same time with a wise nurturing and cultivation into its own profounder spiritual significance. Indian culture has worked by two coordinated, mutually stimulating and always interblended operations of which these perceptions are the principle. First, it has laboured to lead upward and enlarge the life of the individual in the community through a natural series of life-stages till it was ready for the spiritual levels. But also it has striven to keep that highest aim before the mind at every stage and throw its influence on each circumstance and action both of man’s inner and his outer existence.”55</p>
			<h4 id="_idParaDest-39" class="Subhead3">(iii) The Frame for the Execution of Its First Perception – The <a id="_idIndexMarker328"></a>Triple Quartette</h4>
			<p class="Body-Text">In the plan of its first perception or aim it came nearer to the highest ancient cultures in other regions but in its execution its system was in a type and with a motive all its own. “The frame of its system was constituted by a triple quartette. Its first circle was the synthesis and gradation of the fourfold object of life, vital desire and hedonistic enjoyment, personal and communal interest, moral right and law, and spiritual liberation. Its second circle was the fourfold order of society, carefully graded and equipped with its fixed economic functions and its deeper cultural, ethical and spiritual significances. Its third, the most original and indeed unique of its englobing life-patterns, was the fourfold scale of the successive stages of life, student, householder, forest recluse and free supersocial man. This frame, these lines of a large and noble life-training subsisted in their purity, their grand natural balance of austerity and accommodation, their fine effectiveness during the later Vedic and heroic age of the civilisation: afterwards they crumbled slowly or lost their completeness and order. But the tradition, the idea with some large effect of its force and some figure of its lines endured throughout the whole period of cultural vigour. However deflected it might have been from its true form and spirit, however mutilated and complicated for the worse, there was always left some presence of its inspiration and power. Only in the decline do we get the slow collapse, the degraded and confused mass of conventions which still labours to represent the ancient and noble Aryan system, but in spite of relics of glamour and beauty, in spite of survivals of spiritual suggestion and in spite of a residue of the old high training, is little better than a detritus or a mass of confused relics. Still even in this degradation enough of the original virtue has remained to ensure a remarkable remnant of the ancient beauty, attractiveness and power of survival.”56</p>
			<h4 id="_idParaDest-40" class="Subhead3">(iv) The Cultural Effort for the Execution of the Second Perception – the Endeavour to Cast the Whole Life into a Religious Mould</h4>
			<p class="Body-Text">This is a more direct spiritual operation of Indian culture than the first and is of a still greater importance because it coloured permanently the Indian mind and life and has remained the same – always renewed its effectiveness and held its field – behind every change of form and throughout all the ages of the civilisation. This cultural effort “...multiplied means and devices which by their insistent suggestion and opportunity and their mass of effect would help to stamp a Godward tendency on the entire existence. Indian culture was founded on a religious conception of life and both the individual and the community drank in at every moment its influence. It was stamped on them by the training and turn of the education; the entire life atmosphere, all the social surroundings were suffused with it; it breathed its power through the whole original form and hieratic character of the culture. Always was felt the near idea of the spiritual existence and its supremacy as the ideal, highest over all others; everywhere there was the pervading pressure of the notion of the universe as a manifestation of divine Powers and a movement full of the presence of the Divine. Man himself was not a mere reasoning animal, but a soul in constant relation with God and with the divine cosmic Powers. The soul’s continued existence was a cyclic or upward progress from birth to birth; human life was the summit of an evolution which terminated in the conscious Spirit, every stage of that life a step in a pilgrimage. Every single action of man had its importance of fruit whether in future lives or in the worlds beyond the material existence.”57</p>
			<p class="commentary">‡ The wonderful elucidation by Sri Aurobindo of the first two perceptions of this culture reveals in essence, the whole of the course of development of this culture from the original conception to its actual working out. It is only in the light of this wide perspective that one can get a true sense of all the various forms — both outward and inner — that this culture adopted for the fulfilment of its fundamental spirit. </p>
			<p class="commentary">While setting before itself the goal of self-realisation and self-attainment, Indian culture also knew well that the emergence from the natural unregenerate state and the movement towards the spirit cannot be sudden, simple and immediate for all individuals. For, each carries within itself some special attribute or aspect of the Divine which it has to work out and manifest through the great complexity of the various parts of its being. And ordinarily, this can come only through a long and arduous process of gradual culture, training and progress. </p>
			<p class="commentary">Qs: Deliberating on the first perception of Indian culture, Sri Aurobindo says, “There must be an enlarging of the natural life accompanied by an uplifting of all its motives”, what does this statement truly mean?</p>
			<p class="commentary">Ans: As in one’s physical life one has to undergo various stages of physical development before reaching maturity, the same applies to the other parts of our being which also need training, refinement, culture and enlargement before they can be prepared for a truer and larger working. Generally, a natural man begins at a stage where not only his intellectual, ethical, and aesthetic faculties are abeyant, but also he is confined in a petty egoistic consciousness and, therefore, the balance of his being is such that the action of the lower parts is much stronger than that of the higher and deeper ones. The whole outlook on life and its motives at this stage remains entirely superficial and shut up within a narrow circle. Therefore, before one reaches a stage where one is ready to undertake the spiritual pursuit in life, it is necessary first to cultivate one’s intellectual, moral, aesthetic and other latent inner powers and faculties to bring about, in their light, not only an enlargement of the natural unregenerate life but even an ever-growing upliftment of the otherwise limited outlook on life and its motives. It is a fact of common observation that as compared to someone concentrated grossly on the satisfaction of his animalistic and petty appetites, one with developed aesthetic or ethical faculties has much wider and greater aims and perspectives, field of action, possibilities and the resulting manifestation and fulfilment in life. As one ascends higher in scale, the whole framework of life, its scope and its motives too keep enlarging. It was in view of putting into effect this fundamental perception that a whole wide system of triple quartettes was laid down by this culture to help a growing soul (whatever its current stage of inner and outer life) to successively ascend towards ever greater scales of spiritual illumination. ‡</p>
			<h4 id="_idParaDest-41" class="Subhead3">(v) The Third Perception – The Varying Natural Capacity of Man, <a id="_idIndexMarker329"></a>Adhikāra</h4>
			<p class="Body-Text">The Indian religion was not content with merely creating the general pressure of its noble conceptions. “Its persistent effort was to impress the mind at every moment and in each particular with the religious influence. And to do this more effectively by a living and practical adaptation, not asking from anyone what was too much for him or too little, it took as a guiding idea its perception of the varying natural capacity of man, adhikāra. It provided in its system means by which each man high or low, wise or ignorant, exceptional or average might feel in the way suitable to his nature and evolutionary stage the call, the pressure, the influence. Avoiding the error of the religions that impose a single dogmatic and inflexible rule on every man regardless of the possibilities of his nature, it tried rather to draw him gently upward and help him to grow steadily in religious and spiritual experience. Every part of human nature, every characteristic turn of its action was given a place in the system; each was suitably surrounded with the spiritual idea and a religious influence, each provided with steps by which it might rise towards its own spiritual possibility and significance. The highest spiritual meaning of life was set on the summits of each evolving power of the human nature. The intelligence was called to a supreme knowledge, the dynamic active and creative powers pointed to openness and unity with an infinite and universal Will, the heart and sense put in contact with a divine love and joy and beauty. But this highest meaning was also put everywhere indicatively or in symbols behind the whole system of living, even in its details, so that its impression might fall in whatever degree on the life, increase in pervasion and in the end take up the entire control. This was the aim and, if we consider the imperfections of our nature and the difficulty of the endeavour, we can say that it achieved an unusual measure of success. It has been said with some truth that for the Indian the whole of life is a religion. True of the ideal of Indian life, it is true to a certain degree and in a certain sense in its fact and practice. No step could be taken in the Indian’s inner or outer life without his being reminded of a spiritual existence. Everywhere he felt the closeness or at least saw the sign of something beyond his natural life, beyond the moment in time, beyond his individual ego, something other than the needs and interests of his vital and physical nature. That insistence gave its tone and turn to his thought and action and feeling; it produced that subtler sensitiveness to the spiritual appeal, that greater readiness to turn to the spiritual effort which are even now distinguishing marks of the Indian temperament. It is that readiness, that sensitiveness which justifies us when we speak of the characteristic spirituality of the Indian people.</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">The ancient idea of the adhikāra has to be taken into careful account if we would understand the peculiar character of Indian religion. In most other religious systems we find a high-pitched spiritual call and a difficult and rigid ethical standard far beyond the possibilities of man’s half-evolved, defective and imperfect nature. This standard, this call are announced as if imperative on all; but it is evident that only a few can give an adequate response. There is presented to our view for all our picture of life the sharp division of two extremes; the saint and the worldling, the religious and the irreligious, the good and the bad, the pious and the impious, souls accepted and souls rejected, the sheep and the goats, the saved and the damned, the believer and the infidel, are the two categories set constantly before us. All between is a confusion, a tug of war, an uncertain balance. This crude and summary classification is the foundation of the Christian system of an eternal heaven and hell; at best, the Catholic religion humanely interposes a precarious chance hung between that happy and this dread alternative, the chance of a painful purgatory for more than nine tenths of the human race. Indian religion set up on its summits a still more high-pitched spiritual call, a standard of conduct still more perfect and absolute; but it did not go about its work with this summary and unreflecting ignorance. All beings are to the Indian mind portions of the Divine, evolving souls, and sure of an eventual salvation and release into the spirit. All must feel, as the good in them grows or, more truly, the godhead in them finds itself and becomes conscious, the ultimate touch and call of their highest self and through that call the attraction to the Eternal and Divine.”58</p>
			<h4 id="_idParaDest-42" class="Subhead3">(vi) The Means Used to Give Effect to the Third Perception – the Perception of the Three Types or Levels of the Evolving Human Soul and the Creation of the Varying Religious Atmosphere Suited to Each</h4>
			<p class="Body-Text">“...in life there are infinite differences between man and man; some are more inwardly evolved, others are less mature, many if not most are infant souls incapable of great steps and difficult efforts. Each needs to be dealt with according to his nature and his soul stature. But a general distinction can be drawn between three principal types varying in their openness to the spiritual appeal or to the religious influence or impulse. This distinction amounts to a gradation of three stages in the growing human consciousness. One crude, ill-formed, still outward, still vitally and physically minded can be led only by devices suited to its ignorance. Another, more developed and capable of a much stronger and deeper psycho-spiritual experience, offers a riper make of manhood gifted with a more conscious intelligence, a larger vital or aesthetic opening, a stronger ethical power of the nature. A third, the ripest and most developed of all, is ready for the spiritual heights, fit to receive or to climb towards the loftiest ultimate truth of God and of its own being and to tread the summits of divine experience.”<span id="footnote-013-backlink"><a class="_idFootnoteLink _idGenColorInherit" href="BharatiyaSamskritiEnglishCommentary-23.xhtml#footnote-013">[13]</a></span> 59</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">It was understood that there was the need to provide each type the religious atmosphere suited to its needs. “It was to meet the need of the first type or level that Indian religion created that mass of suggestive ceremony and effective ritual and strict outward rule and injunction and all that pageant of attracting and compelling symbol with which the cult is so richly equipped or profusely decorated. These are for the most part forming and indicative things which work upon the mind consciently and subconsciently and prepare it for an entry into the significance of the greater permanent things that lie behind them. And for this type too, for its vital mind and will, is intended all in the religion that calls on man to turn to a divine Power or powers for the just satisfaction of his desires and his interests, just because subject to the right and the law, the Dharma. In the Vedic times the outward ritual sacrifice and at a later period all the religious forms and notions that clustered visibly around the rites and imagery of temple worship, constant festival and ceremony and daily act of outward devotion were intended to serve this type or this soul-stage. Many of these things may seem to the developed mind to belong to an ignorant or half awakened religionism; but they have their concealed truth and their psychic value and are indispensable in this stage for the development and difficult awakening of the soul shrouded in the ignorance of material Nature.</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">The middle stage, the second type starts from these things, but gets behind them; it is capable of understanding more clearly and consciently the psychic truths, the conceptions of the intelligence, the aesthetic indications, the ethical values and all the other mediating directions which Indian religion took care to place behind its symbols. These intermediate truths vivify the outward forms of the system and those who can grasp them can go through these mental indices towards things that are beyond the mind and approach the profounder truths of the spirit. For at this stage there is already something awake that can go inward to a more deeply psycho-religious experience. Already the mind, heart and will have some strength to grapple with the difficulties of the relations between the spirit and life, some urge to satisfy more luminously or more inwardly the rational, aesthetic and ethical nature and lead them upward towards their own highest heights; one can begin to train mind and soul towards a spiritual consciousness and the opening of a spiritual existence. This ascending type of humanity claims for its use all that large and opulent middle region of philosophic, psycho-spiritual, ethical, aesthetic and emotional religious seeking which is the larger and more significant portion of the wealth of Indian culture. At this stage intervene the philosophical systems, the subtle illumining debates and inquiries of the thinkers; here are the nobler or more passionate reaches of devotion, here are held up the higher, ampler or austerer ideals of the Dharma; here break in the psychical suggestions and first definite urgings of the eternal and infinite which draw men by their appeal and promise towards the practice of Yoga. </p>
			<p class="Body-Text">But these things, great as they were, were not final or supreme: they were openings, steps of ascension towards the luminous grandeurs of spiritual truth and its practice was kept ready and its means of attainment provided for the third and greatest type of human being, the third loftiest stage of the spiritual evolution. The complete light of spiritual knowledge when it emerges from veil and compromise and goes beyond all symbols and middle significances, the absolute and universal divine love, the beauty of the All-beautiful, the noblest dharma of unity with all beings, universal compassion and benevolence calm and sweet in the perfect purity of the spirit, the upsurge of the psychical being into the spiritual unity or the spiritual ecstasy, these divinest things were the heritage of the human being ready for divinity and their way and call were the supreme significances of Indian religion and Yoga. He reached by them the fruits of his perfect spiritual evolution, an identity with the Self and Spirit, a dwelling in or with God, the divine law of his being, a spiritual universality, communion, transcendence.”60</p>
			<p class="commentary">‡ Indian religion did not remain content with the execution of its first two fundamental perceptions, for it had yet another perception which had to be considered before shaping for an individual the actual course of his inner development, his proper field of practical action, the right code of conduct and duty. This was Adhikara or the varying natural capacity of man. </p>
			<p class="commentary">The term ‘<a id="_idIndexMarker330"></a>Adhikara’ has nothing to do with the sense of ‘right’ or of ‘proprietorship’ or of ‘possession’ in which it is commonly understood. When talking of the varying natural capacity of man (adhikara), one must take care to deal with the term ‘capacity’ in its more subjective and psychological sense rather than stopping short at its common superficial meaning. For example, it is not merely the capacity of the sense of hearing, or that of the sight, however faultless in its working, that can enable one to enter into the deeper sense of music or to go behind the outer form of art to its deeper intent, any more than mere command over vocabulary can enable one to enter into the heart of literature. It is evidently much more the cultivation and refinement of the subjective and psychological sense than the mere accuracy or sensitivity of the outer sense organs that can truly enable one to enter into and appreciate music, art or literature. Indian culture throughout had this deep perception that just as an apparently lifeless idol can express much more of its beauty and emotion to one with a cultivated aesthetic sense than to a brute, and even more so to one with an awakened deeper eye to whom it may even reveal the secret Divinity behind the form, similarly, the whole creation appears to us the way it does because of the given constitution and state of our consciousness. Sanatana Dharma looked upon each being as a portion of the Divine, and therefore, capable of regaining its original divinity. It is for the fulfilment of this fundamental perception that the whole intricate web of Sanatana Dharma was built.</p>
			<p class="commentary">In the discussion about the varying religious atmosphere and devices suited to the different levels of the evolving human soul, there is a point that needs to be rightly understood to avoid possible misunderstanding. It has been said that the whole mass of suggestive ceremony and effective ritual and strict outward rule and injunction etc. was provided to meet the need of the first type or level, that is, the crude, ill-formed, still outward, vitally and physically minded person, but that must not be taken to mean that the utility of all such ceremonies and rituals gradually loses its relevance as one ascends to the higher levels of consciousness and when, finally, one reaches a certain stage one can completely do away with all outer worship. It is only those who have no deeper understanding and experience of the subject that make such a sharp distinction between knowledge and works — where, in truth, no such disparity exists — and while trying to vindicate the supremacy of Jnanakanda over Karmakanda (ritualism), advocate a complete abstention from works. In the past also, such misconceptions have been responsible for much confusion and misunderstanding. The aim of the rich mass of rituals, ceremonies and symbols with which a cult equips itself is to appeal to the still outward, crude and physically minded consciousness and surround it with such indicative things that work upon the mind consciently and subconsciently to prepare it for an entry into the deeper significance of the symbol. But with the growth in consciousness, the symbols — ceasing to be mere dead or unintelligible representations — become more and more alive with that deeper truth which they are meant to symbolise. Therefore, with the development of consciousness, the usefulness of ritualism, ceremony, outer worship, etc. does not necessarily cease, on the contrary, they get their true significance. It is only in such a state that works are no more a bondage but become powerful means of expression of the joy of union with the Divine. Thus, primarily, works (or rituals) serve as means for the surface nature to ascend and establish contact with the Divine, and once that is attained, they become means of its expression and manifestation.</p>
			<p class="commentary">The whole discussion on the dynamic formulation of Indian religious culture summarises the three fundamental perceptions of this culture and the colossal effort it put into developing the necessary framework for the execution of those perceptions. But even after having devised such wide structure, Indian religion throughout held to a yet greater perception of the possibility of a direct approach to the spiritual reality free of gradations. For it, the inner spiritual call — the call of the Divine — was the one thing of paramount importance. The whole ingenious framework was meant only to serve as means for creating the most conducive atmosphere for the reception of that inner call and, once received, to provide the necessary help and support to move towards its fulfilment. That is why in his commentary on the Gita, Sri Aurobindo writes, “Previous effort and preparation, the purity and the holiness of the <a id="_idIndexMarker331"></a>Brahmin, the enlightened strength of the king-sage great in works and knowledge have their value, because they make it easier for the imperfect human creature to arrive at this wide vision and self-surrender; but even without this preparation all who take refuge in the divine Lover of man, the <a id="_idIndexMarker332"></a>Vaishya once preoccupied with the narrowness of wealth-getting and the labour of production, the <a id="_idIndexMarker333"></a>Shudra hampered by a thousand hard restrictions, woman shut in and stunted in her growth by the narrow circle society has drawn around her self-expansion, those too, pāpa-yonayaḥ, on whom their past Karma has imposed even the very worst of births, the outcaste, the Pariah, the Chandala, find at once the gates of God opening before them. In the spiritual life all the external distinctions of which men make so much because they appeal with an oppressive force to the outward mind, cease before the equality of the divine Light and the wide omnipotence of an impartial Power.” (CWSA 19, 335). </p>
			<p class="commentary">It is this significant perception of Indian religion that Sri Aurobindo proceeds to clarify. ‡</p>
			<h4 id="_idParaDest-43" class="Subhead3">(vii) The Provision for or the Admittance of the Possibility of a Direct Approach to the Spiritual Reality Free of the Gradations</h4>
			<p class="Body-Text">The above gradations or “...distinctions are lines that can always be overpassed in the infinite complexity of man’s nature and there was no sharp and unbridgeable division, only a gradation, since the actuality or potentiality of the three powers coexist in all men. Both the middle and the highest significances were near and present and pervaded the whole system, and the approaches to the highest status were not absolutely denied to any man, in spite of certain prohibitions: but these prohibitions broke down in practice or left a way of escape to the man who felt the call; the call itself was a sign of election. He had only to find the way and the guide. But even in the direct approach the principle of adhikāra, differing capacity and varying nature, <a id="_idIndexMarker334"></a>svabhāva, was recognised in subtle ways, which it would be beyond my present purpose to enumerate. One may note as an example the significant Indian idea of the <a id="_idIndexMarker335"></a>iṣṭa-devatā, the special name, form, idea of the Divinity which each man may choose for worship and communion and follow after according to the attraction in his nature and his capacity of spiritual intelligence. And each of the forms has its outer initial associations and suggestions for the worshipper, its appeal to the intelligence, psychical, aesthetic, emotional power in the nature and its highest spiritual significance which leads through some one truth of the Godhead into the essence of spirituality. One may note too that in the practice of Yoga the disciple has to be led through his nature and according to his capacity and the spiritual teacher and guide is expected to perceive and take account of the necessary gradations and the individual need and power in his giving of help and guidance. Many things may be objected to in the actual working of this large and flexible system and I shall take some note of them when I have to deal with the weak points or the pejorative side of the culture against which the hostile critic directs with a misleading exaggeration his missiles. But the principle of it and the main lines of the application embody a remarkable wisdom, knowledge and careful observation of human nature and an assured insight into the things of the spirit which none can question who has considered deeply and flexibly these difficult matters or had any close experience of the obstacles and potentialities of our nature in its approach to the concealed spiritual reality.”61</p>
			<hr class="HorizontalRule-1" />
			<div class="_idFootnotes">
				<div id="footnote-013" class="_idFootnote" epub:type="footnote">
					<p class="Footnote"><a class="_idFootnoteAnchor _idGenColorInherit" href="BharatiyaSamskritiEnglishCommentary-23.xhtml#footnote-013-backlink">[13]</a>&#9;The Tantric distinction is between the animal man, the hero man and the divine man, paśu, vīra, deva. Or we may grade the difference according to the three gunas, – first, the tamasic or rajaso-tamasic man ignorant, inert or moved only in a little light by small motive forces, the rajasic or sattwo-rajasic man struggling with an awakened mind and will towards self-development or self-affirmation, and the sattwic man open in mind and heart and will to the Light, standing at the top of the scale and ready to transcend it.</p>
				</div>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
