<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>BharatiyaSamskritiEnglishCommentary-2</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="BharatiyaSamskritiEnglishCommentary-2" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div id="_idContainer007" class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h1 id="_idParaDest-2" class="Headline">Excerpts from Sri Aurobindo’s Famous Uttarpara Speech</h1>
			<p class="Body-Text">“I say no longer that nationalism is a creed, a religion, a faith; I say that it is the Sanatana Dharma which for us is nationalism. This Hindu nation was born with the Sanatana Dharma, with it it moves and with it it grows. When the Sanatana Dharma declines, then the nation declines, and if the Sanatana Dharma were capable of perishing, with the Sanatana Dharma it would perish. The Sanatana Dharma, that is nationalism.” (CWSA 8: 12) </p>
			<p class="Body-Text">“Then He placed the Gita in my hands. His strength entered into me and I was able to do the sadhan of the Gita. I was not only to understand intellectually but to realise what Srikrishna demanded of Arjuna and what He demands of those who aspire to do His work, to be free from repulsion and desire, to do work for Him without the demand for fruit, to renounce self-will and become a passive and faithful instrument in His hands, to have an equal heart for high and low, friend and opponent, success and failure, yet not to do His work negligently. I realised what the Hindu religion meant. We speak often of the Hindu religion, of the Sanatana Dharma, but few of us really know what that religion is. Other religions are preponderatingly religions of faith and profession, but the Sanatana Dharma is life itself; it is a thing that has not so much to be believed as lived. This is the dharma that for the salvation of humanity was cherished in the seclusion of this peninsula from of old. It is to give this religion that India is rising. She does not rise as other countries do, for self or when she is strong, to trample on the weak. She is rising to shed the eternal light entrusted to her over the world. India has always existed for humanity and not for herself and it is for humanity and not for herself that she must be great.” (CWSA 8: 5-6) </p>
			<p class="Body-Text">“…day after day, He showed me His wonders and made me realise the utter truth of the Hindu religion. I had had many doubts before. I was brought up in England amongst foreign ideas and an atmosphere entirely foreign. About many things in Hinduism I had once been inclined to believe that it was all imagination; that there was much of dream in it, much that was delusion and maya. But now day after day I realised in the mind, I realised in the heart, I realised in the body the truths of the Hindu religion. They became living experiences to me, and things were opened to me which no material science could explain.” (CWSA 8: 9) </p>
			<p class="Body-Text">“When I approached God at that time, I hardly had a living faith in Him. The agnostic was in me, the atheist was in me, the sceptic was in me and I was not absolutely sure that there was a God at all. I did not feel His presence. Yet something drew me to the truth of the Vedas, the truth of the Gita, the truth of the Hindu religion. I felt there must be a mighty truth somewhere in this Yoga, a mighty truth in this religion based on the Vedanta. So when I turned to the Yoga and resolved to practise it and find out if my idea was right, I did it in this spirit and with this prayer to Him, “If Thou art, then Thou knowest my heart. Thou knowest that I do not ask for Mukti, I do not ask for anything which others ask for. I ask only for strength to uplift this nation, I ask only to be allowed to live and work for this people whom I love and to whom I pray that I may devote my life.” I strove long for the realisation of Yoga and at last to some extent I had it, but in what I most desired, I was not satisfied. Then in the seclusion of the jail, of the solitary cell I asked for it again. I said, “Give me Thy adesh. I do not know what work to do or how to do it. Give me a message.” In the communion of Yoga two messages came. The first message said, “I have given you a work and it is to help to uplift this nation. Before long the time will come when you will have to go out of jail; for it is not my will that this time either you should be convicted or that you should pass the time as others have to do, in suffering for their country. I have called you to work, and that is the adesh for which you have asked. I give you the adesh to go forth and do my work.” The second message came and it said, “Something has been shown to you in this year of seclusion, something about which you had your doubts and it is the truth of the Hindu religion. It is this religion that I am raising up before the world, it is this that I have perfected and developed through the rishis, saints and avatars, and now it is going forth to do my work among the nations. I am raising up this nation to send forth my word. This is the Sanatana Dharma, this is the eternal religion which you did not really know before, but which I have now revealed to you. The agnostic and the sceptic in you have been answered, for I have given you proofs within and without you, physical and subjective, which have satisfied you. When you go forth, speak to your nation always this word that it is for the Sanatana Dharma that they arise, it is for the world and not for themselves that they arise. I am giving them freedom for the service of the world. When therefore it is said that India shall rise, it is the Sanatana Dharma that shall rise. When it is said that India shall be great, it is the Sanatana Dharma that shall be great. When it is said that India shall expand and extend herself, it is the Sanatana Dharma that shall expand and extend itself over the world. It is for the dharma and by the dharma that India exists. To magnify the religion means to magnify the country.” (CWSA 8: 9-10) </p>
			<p class="Body-Text">“The name of your society is “Society for the Protection of Religion”. Well, the protection of the religion, the protection and upraising before the world of the Hindu religion, that is the work before us. But what is the Hindu religion? What is this religion which we call Sanatana, eternal? It is the Hindu religion only because the Hindu nation has kept it, because in this peninsula it grew up in the seclusion of the sea and the Himalayas, because in this sacred and ancient land it was given as a charge to the Aryan race to preserve through the ages. But it is not circumscribed by the confines of a single country, it does not belong peculiarly and for ever to a bounded part of the world. That which we call the Hindu religion is really the eternal religion, because it is the universal religion which embraces all others. If a religion is not universal, it cannot be eternal. A narrow religion, a sectarian religion, an exclusive religion can live only for a limited time and a limited purpose. This is the one religion that can triumph over materialism by including and anticipating the discoveries of science and the speculations of philosophy. It is the one religion which impresses on mankind the closeness of God to us and embraces in its compass all the possible means by which man can approach God. It is the one religion which insists every moment on the truth which all religions acknowledge, that He is in all men and all things and that in Him we move and have our being. It is the one religion which enables us not only to understand and believe this truth but to realise it with every part of our being. It is the one religion which shows the world what the world is, that it is the lila of Vasudeva. It is the one religion which shows us how we can best play our part in that lila, its subtlest laws and its noblest rules. It is the one religion which does not separate life in any smallest detail from religion, which knows what immortality is and has utterly removed from us the reality of death.” (CWSA 8: 11-12) </p>
		</div>
		<div class="_idGenObjectLayout-1">
			<div id="_idContainer008">
			</div>
		</div>
		<div class="_idGenObjectLayout-1">
			<div id="_idContainer009">
			</div>
		</div>
		<div class="_idGenObjectLayout-1">
			<div id="_idContainer010">
			</div>
		</div>
		<div id="_idContainer011" epub:type="toc">
			<p>Contents</p>
			<p class="TOC_Toc-Headline">Preface<a href=""><span class="for-numbers-of-toc _idGenCharOverride-2">v</span></a></p>
			<p class="TOC_Toc-Headline"><a href="">Excerpts from Sri Aurobindo’s Famous Uttarpara Speech<span class="for-numbers-of-toc _idGenCharOverride-2">ix</span></a></p>
			<p class="TOC_Toc-Headline"><a href="">1. What Is India?<span class="for-numbers-of-toc _idGenCharOverride-2">1</span></a></p>
			<p class="TOC_Toc-Headline"><a href="">2. Indian Civilisation and Culture<span class="for-numbers-of-toc _idGenCharOverride-2">17</span></a></p>
			<p class="TOC_Toc-Subhead-1"><a href="">I. The Fundamental Idea and the Essential Spirit<span class="for-numbers-of-toc">22</span></a></p>
			<p class="TOC_Toc-Subhead-1"><a href="">II. Indian Culture in the Eyes of a Rationalistic Critic<span class="for-numbers-of-toc">55</span></a></p>
			<p class="TOC_Toc-Subhead-2"><a href="">A. Leading Ideas<span class="for-numbers-of-toc _idGenCharOverride-1">58</span></a></p>
			<p class="TOC_Toc-Subhead-2"><a href="">B. Life-Value of Indian Philosophy<span class="for-numbers-of-toc _idGenCharOverride-1">69</span></a></p>
			<p class="TOC_Toc-Subhead-2"><a href="">C. Life-Value of Indian Religion<span class="for-numbers-of-toc _idGenCharOverride-1">75</span></a></p>
			<p class="TOC_Toc-Subhead-2"><a href="">D. The Rationalistic Critic’s Arguments Against Hinduism<span class="for-numbers-of-toc _idGenCharOverride-1">81</span></a></p>
			<p class="TOC_Toc-Subhead-3"><a href="">(i) The Total Irrationality of Hinduism<span class="for-numbers-of-toc _idGenCharOverride-1">81</span></a></p>
			<p class="TOC_Toc-Subhead-3"><a href="">(ii) The Paganism of Indian Religious Spirit<span class="for-numbers-of-toc _idGenCharOverride-1">85</span></a></p>
			<p class="TOC_Toc-Subhead-3"><a href="">(iii) Lack of All Moral Worth and Ethical Substance<span class="for-numbers-of-toc _idGenCharOverride-1">89</span></a></p>
			<p class="TOC_Toc-Subhead-3">(iv)<a href=""> Lack of Power and Vitality in Indian Culture<span class="for-numbers-of-toc _idGenCharOverride-1">97</span></a></p>
			<p class="TOC_Toc-Subhead-1"><a href="">III. The Life-Value of Indian Culture – the Supreme Achievements of Indian Culture in Its Dealings with Life<span class="for-numbers-of-toc">100</span></a></p>
			<p class="TOC_Toc-Subhead-2"><a href="">A. The Original Conception of Life – the European and the Indian<span class="for-numbers-of-toc _idGenCharOverride-1">100</span></a></p>
			<p class="TOC_Toc-Subhead-2"><a href="">B. The High Value and Soundness of the Indian Conception of Life<span class="for-numbers-of-toc _idGenCharOverride-1">110</span></a></p>
			<p class="TOC_Toc-Subhead-3"><a href="">(i) The Two Main Truths of Human Existence<span class="for-numbers-of-toc _idGenCharOverride-1">118</span></a></p>
			<p class="TOC_Toc-Subhead-3"><a href="">(ii) The Workings of Dharma – the Religious Law of Action and the Deepest Law of Our Nature<span class="for-numbers-of-toc _idGenCharOverride-1">121</span></a></p>
			<p class="TOC_Toc-Subhead-3"><a href="">(iii) The Exceeding of Dharma – The Ideal of Moksha or Mukti<span class="for-numbers-of-toc _idGenCharOverride-1">128</span></a></p>
			<p class="TOC_Toc-Subhead-2"><a href="">C. The Power of the Forms, Types and Rhythms That the Indian Culture Has Given to Life<span class="for-numbers-of-toc _idGenCharOverride-1">130</span></a></p>
			<p class="TOC_Toc-Subhead-3"><a href="">(i) The Three Stages or Periods in the History of the Indian Culture<span class="for-numbers-of-toc _idGenCharOverride-1">131</span></a></p>
			<p class="TOC_Toc-Subhead-3"><a href="">(ii) The Firm Outward Basis for the Founding of the Practical Development of the Spirit of Indian Culture and Its Idea in Life – The Fourfold Varnasram System<span class="for-numbers-of-toc _idGenCharOverride-1">133</span></a></p>
			<p class="TOC_Toc-Subhead-1"><a href="">IV. The Greatest Accomplishment of Indian Culture – the Web of the Sanatana Dharma<span class="for-numbers-of-toc">151</span></a></p>
			<p class="TOC_Toc-Subhead-2"><a href="">A. The Whole Root of Difference between Indian and European Culture<span class="for-numbers-of-toc _idGenCharOverride-1">156</span></a></p>
			<p class="TOC_Toc-Subhead-2"><a href="">B. The Four Necessities of Human Life<span class="for-numbers-of-toc _idGenCharOverride-1">158</span></a></p>
			<p class="TOC_Toc-Subhead-2"><a href="">C. The Fundamental Idea and the Core of Indian Religion<span class="for-numbers-of-toc _idGenCharOverride-1">160</span></a></p>
			<p class="TOC_Toc-Subhead-2"><a href="">D. The Liberty of Religious Practice and Complete Freedom of Thought in Indian Religion<span class="for-numbers-of-toc _idGenCharOverride-1">168</span></a></p>
			<p class="TOC_Toc-Subhead-2"><a href="">E. The Combination of a Firm Spiritual Order with an Untrammelled Spiritual Freedom<span class="for-numbers-of-toc _idGenCharOverride-1">173</span></a></p>
			<p class="TOC_Toc-Subhead-2"><a href="">F. The Total Movement of Indian Spirituality – the Transmutation of All the Instruments of the Human Living into Instruments of a Divine Living<span class="for-numbers-of-toc _idGenCharOverride-1">179</span></a></p>
			<p class="TOC_Toc-Subhead-2"><a href="">G. The Spirit and Forms of Indian Religion and Spiritual Culture<span class="for-numbers-of-toc _idGenCharOverride-1">185</span></a></p>
			<p class="TOC_Toc-Subhead-3"><a href="">(i) The Vedic and Vedantic Form<span class="for-numbers-of-toc _idGenCharOverride-1">185</span></a></p>
			<p class="TOC_Toc-Subhead-3"><a href="">(ii) The Post-Vedic Age<span class="for-numbers-of-toc _idGenCharOverride-1">201</span></a></p>
			<p class="TOC_Toc-Subhead-3"><a href="">(iii) The Purano-Tantric Stage<span class="for-numbers-of-toc _idGenCharOverride-1">208</span></a></p>
			<p class="TOC_Toc-Subhead-3"><a href="">(iv) The Third and the Last Stage<span class="for-numbers-of-toc _idGenCharOverride-1">213</span></a></p>
			<p class="TOC_Toc-Subhead-2"><a href="">H. The Dynamic Formulation of Indian Religious Culture<span class="for-numbers-of-toc _idGenCharOverride-1">221</span></a></p>
			<p class="TOC_Toc-Subhead-3"><a href="">(i) The First Perception<span class="for-numbers-of-toc _idGenCharOverride-1">222</span></a></p>
			<p class="TOC_Toc-Subhead-3"><a href="">(ii) The Second Perception<span class="for-numbers-of-toc _idGenCharOverride-1">222</span></a></p>
			<p class="TOC_Toc-Subhead-3"><a href="">(iii) The Frame for the Execution of Its First Perception – The Triple Quartette<span class="for-numbers-of-toc _idGenCharOverride-1">223</span></a></p>
			<p class="TOC_Toc-Subhead-3"><a href="">(iv) The Cultural Effort for the Execution of the Second Perception – the Endeavour to Cast the Whole Life into a Religious Mould<span class="for-numbers-of-toc _idGenCharOverride-1">224</span></a></p>
			<p class="TOC_Toc-Subhead-3"><a href="">(v) The Third Perception – The Varying Natural Capacity of Man, Adhikāra<span class="for-numbers-of-toc _idGenCharOverride-1">226</span></a></p>
			<p class="TOC_Toc-Subhead-3"><a href="">(vi) The Means Used to Give Effect to the Third Perception – the Perception of the Three Types or Levels of the Evolving Human Soul and the Creation of the Varying Religious Atmosphere Suited to Each<span class="for-numbers-of-toc _idGenCharOverride-1">228</span></a></p>
			<p class="TOC_Toc-Subhead-3"><a href="">(vii) The Provision for or the Admittance of the Possibility of a Direct Approach to the Spiritual Reality Free of the Gradations<span class="for-numbers-of-toc _idGenCharOverride-1">234</span></a></p>
			<p class="TOC_Toc-Subhead-1"><a href="">V. The Linking of the Graded System of Religious Development and Spiritual Evolution to the General Culture of the Life of the Human Being and Its Powers<span class="for-numbers-of-toc">235</span></a></p>
			<p class="TOC_Toc-Subhead-2"><a href="">A. The Rishi and the Shastra – the Linking and the Culture of the Thinking Being of Man<span class="for-numbers-of-toc _idGenCharOverride-1">235</span></a></p>
			<p class="TOC_Toc-Subhead-2"><a href="">B. The Dharma – the Culture and the Ordering of the Ethical Nature<span class="for-numbers-of-toc _idGenCharOverride-1">241</span></a></p>
			<p class="TOC_Toc-Subhead-2"><a href="">C. All the Arts Under the Sanction of the Rishi – the Linking and Culture of Aesthetic and the Hedonistic Being of Man<span class="for-numbers-of-toc _idGenCharOverride-1">243</span></a></p>
			<p class="TOC_Toc-Subhead-2"><a href="">D. The Building Up of Great Shastras – the Dealings with the Ordinary Dynamic, Political, Economical and Social Being of Man<span class="for-numbers-of-toc _idGenCharOverride-1">244</span></a></p>
			<p class="TOC_Toc-Subhead-2"><a href="">E. The General Character of the Endeavour to Apply Indian Ideals to Life<span class="for-numbers-of-toc _idGenCharOverride-1">246</span></a></p>
			<p class="TOC_Toc-Subhead-1"><a href="">VI. The Record of the Great Achievements of <br />India in Every Field<span class="for-numbers-of-toc">246</span></a></p>
			<p class="TOC_Toc-Headline"><a href="">3. The Ancient Indian Spirit, Its Four Powers and the Secret of Its Greatness – the Aryan System of Education<span class="for-numbers-of-toc _idGenCharOverride-2">254</span></a></p>
			<p class="TOC_Toc-Subhead-1"><a href="">I. The Spirit of Ancient India<span class="for-numbers-of-toc">254</span></a></p>
			<p class="TOC_Toc-Subhead-1"><a href="">II. The Four Powers<span class="for-numbers-of-toc">258</span></a></p>
			<p class="TOC_Toc-Subhead-2"><a href="">A. Spirituality<span class="for-numbers-of-toc _idGenCharOverride-1">258</span></a></p>
			<p class="TOC_Toc-Subhead-2"><a href="">B. Stupendous Vitality<span class="for-numbers-of-toc _idGenCharOverride-1">260</span></a></p>
			<p class="TOC_Toc-Subhead-2"><a href="">C. Strong Intellectuality<span class="for-numbers-of-toc _idGenCharOverride-1">263</span></a></p>
			<p class="TOC_Toc-Subhead-2"><a href="">D. The Sounding of the Extremes and the Synthetic Impulse<span class="for-numbers-of-toc _idGenCharOverride-1">266</span></a></p>
			<p class="TOC_Toc-Subhead-1"><a href="">III. The Aryan System of Education<span class="for-numbers-of-toc">273</span></a></p>
			<p class="TOC_Toc-Subhead-2"><a href="">A. The Basis – the Discipline of Brahmacharya<span class="for-numbers-of-toc _idGenCharOverride-1">274</span></a></p>
			<p class="TOC_Toc-Subhead-2"><a href="">B. The Process – the Conversion of the Retas into Ojas<span class="for-numbers-of-toc _idGenCharOverride-1">276</span></a></p>
			<p class="TOC_Toc-Subhead-2"><a href="">C. The Three Gunas and the Development of Sattva<span class="for-numbers-of-toc _idGenCharOverride-1">278</span></a></p>
			<p class="TOC_Toc-Subhead-2"><a href="">D. The Achievements of the Aryan System<span class="for-numbers-of-toc _idGenCharOverride-1">288</span></a></p>
			<p class="TOC_Toc-Headline"><a href="">4. Indian Polity<span class="for-numbers-of-toc _idGenCharOverride-2">291</span></a></p>
			<p class="TOC_Toc-Subhead-1"><a href="">I. The Legend of India’s Political Incompetence<span class="for-numbers-of-toc">291</span></a></p>
			<p class="TOC_Toc-Subhead-1"><a href="">II. The Nature of the Indian Monarchical State – Its Subjection to the Yoke of the Dharma<span class="for-numbers-of-toc">294</span></a></p>
			<p class="TOC_Toc-Subhead-1"><a href="">III. The Secret of the Difficulty in the Political Unification in Ancient India<span class="for-numbers-of-toc">300</span></a></p>
			<p class="TOC_Toc-Subhead-2"><a href="">A. The Charge of Incapacity for Political Unifications Against the Indian People<span class="for-numbers-of-toc _idGenCharOverride-1">300</span></a></p>
			<p class="TOC_Toc-Subhead-2"><a href="">B. The Logic of the Indian Mind in Its First Seeking of Spiritual and Cultural Oneness Before Seeking Political Unity<span class="for-numbers-of-toc _idGenCharOverride-1">303</span></a></p>
			<p class="TOC_Toc-Subhead-2"><a href="">C. The Sense in Which the Earlier Mind of India Understood the Problem of Unification<span class="for-numbers-of-toc _idGenCharOverride-1">305</span></a></p>
			<p class="TOC_Toc-Subhead-2"><a href="">D. The Ancient Rishis’ Perception of the Solution of the Problem: the Ideal of the Chakravarti<span class="for-numbers-of-toc _idGenCharOverride-1">307</span></a></p>
			<p class="TOC_Toc-Subhead-1"><a href="">IV. The Muslim Conquest and India’s Retaliation<span class="for-numbers-of-toc">318</span></a></p>
			<p class="TOC_Toc-Subhead-1"><a href="">V. The Future of India<span class="for-numbers-of-toc">319</span></a></p>
			<p class="TOC_Toc-Headline"><a href="">Index<span class="for-numbers-of-toc _idGenCharOverride-2">329</span></a></p>
		</div>
		<div class="_idGenObjectLayout-1">
			<div id="_idContainer012">
			</div>
		</div>
		<div class="_idGenObjectLayout-1">
			<div id="_idContainer013" class="Basic-Graphics-Frame">
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
