<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>BharatiyaSamskritiEnglishCommentary-21</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="BharatiyaSamskritiEnglishCommentary-21" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h3 id="_idParaDest-30" class="Subhead2">F. The Total Movement of Indian Spirituality – the Transmutation of All the Instruments of the Human Living into Instruments of a Divine Living</h3>
			<p class="Body-Text">“The <a id="_idIndexMarker279"></a>task of religion and <a id="_idIndexMarker280"></a>spirituality is to mediate between God and man, between the Eternal and Infinite and this transient, yet persistent finite, between a luminous Truth-consciousness not expressed or not yet expressed here and the Mind’s ignorance. But nothing is more difficult than to bring home the greatness and uplifting power of the spiritual consciousness to the natural man forming the vast majority of the race; for his mind and senses are turned outward towards the external calls of life and its objects and never inwards to the Truth which lies behind them. This external vision and attraction are the essence of the universal blinding force which is designated in Indian philosophy the Ignorance. Ancient Indian spirituality recognised that man lives in the Ignorance and has to be led through its imperfect indications to a highest inmost knowledge. Our life moves between two worlds, the depths upon depths of our inward being and the surface field of our outward nature. The majority of men put the whole emphasis of life on the outward and live very strongly in their surface consciousness and very little in the inward existence. Even the choice spirits raised from the grossness of the common vital and physical mould by the stress of thought and culture do not usually get farther than a strong dwelling on the things of the mind. The highest flight they reach – and it is this that the West persistently mistakes for spirituality – is a preference for living in the mind and emotions more than in the gross outward life or else an attempt to subject this rebellious life-stuff to the law of intellectual truth or ethical reason and will or aesthetic beauty or of all three together. But spiritual knowledge perceives that there is a greater thing in us; our inmost self, our real being is not the intellect, not the aesthetic, ethical or thinking mind, but the divinity within, the Spirit, and these other things are only the instruments of the Spirit. A mere intellectual, ethical and aesthetic culture does not go back to the inmost truth of the spirit; it is still an Ignorance, an incomplete, outward and superficial knowledge. To have made the discovery of our deepest being and hidden spiritual nature is the first necessity and to have erected the living of an inmost spiritual life into the aim of existence is the characteristic sign of a spiritual culture. </p>
			<p class="Body-Text">This endeavour takes in certain religions the form of a spiritual exclusiveness which revolts from the outward existence rather than seeks to transform it. The main tendency of the Christian discipline was not only to despise the physical and vital way of living, but to disparage and imprison the intellectual and distrust and discourage the aesthetic thirsts of our nature. It emphasised against them a limited spiritual emotionalism and its intense experiences as the one thing needful; the development of the ethical sense was the sole mental necessity, its translation into act the sole indispensable condition or result of the spiritual life. <a id="_idIndexMarker281"></a>Indian spirituality reposed on too wide and many-sided a culture to admit as its base this narrow movement; but on its more solitary summits, at least in its later period, it tended to a spiritual exclusiveness loftier in vision, but even more imperative and excessive. A spirituality of this intolerant high-pointed kind, to whatever elevation it may rise, however it may help to purify life or lead to a certain kind of individual salvation, cannot be a complete thing. For its exclusiveness imposes on it a certain impotence to deal effectively with the problems of human existence; it cannot lead it to its integral perfection or combine its highest heights with its broadest broadness. A wider spiritual culture must recognise that the Spirit is not only the highest and inmost thing, but all is manifestation and creation of the Spirit. It must have a wider outlook, a more embracing range of applicability and, even, a more aspiring and ambitious aim of its endeavour. Its aim must be not only to raise to inaccessible heights the few elect, but to draw all men and all life and the whole human being upward, to spiritualise life and in the end to divinise human nature. Not only must it be able to lay hold on his deepest individual being but to inspire too his communal existence. It must turn by a spiritual change all the members of his ignorance into members of the knowledge; it must transmute all the instruments of the human into instruments of a divine living. The total movement of Indian spirituality is towards this aim; in spite of all the difficulties, imperfections and fluctuations of its evolution, it had this character. But like other cultures it was not at all times and in all its parts and movements consciously aware of its own total significance. This large sense sometimes emerged into something like a conscious synthetic clarity, but was more often kept in the depths and on the surface dispersed in a multitude of subordinate and special stand-points. Still, it is only by an intelligence of the total drift that its manifold sides and rich variations of effort and teaching and discipline can receive their full reconciling unity and be understood in the light of its own most intrinsic purpose.”47</p>
			<p class="commentary">‡ Seldom does one find anywhere such an important revelation about the Sanatana Dharma brought out so explicitly as has been made here by Sri Aurobindo. Though the total movement of Indian spirituality and religion has always been in its very nature all-embracing, it is only at times that this synthetic, and all-inclusive impulse consciously formulates and makes itself evident on the surface. Mostly, working secretly from behind the veil it remains obscure even to a discerning eye that can at best catch a glimpse of the multitude of forms, systems and stand-points in which this secret impulse disperses itself on the surface. It, therefore, follows that the whole web of <a id="_idIndexMarker282"></a>Sanatana Dharma — guided always by the Divine Presence — is nothing but a manifestation of this secret spirit in infinite forms. The coming of Sri Aurobindo and the Mother to announce the Supramental manifestation to eventually transform even the material nature and establish divine life upon earth is, therefore, only a logical step in the total movement of the Sanatana Dharma that leads it to its consummation. When Sri Aurobindo first propounded his ideal of Supramental manifestation and its inevitability in the logic of things, many questioned the novelty of his conception saying that the Indian yogis had already been experiencing the states of consciousness up to the level of Sachchidananda which is a far higher level than the supermind. To this one may respond by clarifying that indeed yogis had long been experiencing Sachchidananda – a status of consciousness greater than that of the Supermind – in their physical, vital and mental natures since times immemorial. However, there is a glorious domination in these experiences but not a real mastery of Nature because the mental consciousness is not wide enough to enable Sachchidananda consciousness to master the outermost material nature. It is only the Supramental consciousness that is wide and complex enough to permit the manifestation of the native omniscience, omnipotence and omnipresence of the Spirit (Sachchidananda) in terrestrial nature and establish divine life on Earth. For example, however learned a teacher may be, his expression of knowledge will be conditioned by the standard of the pupils he is addressing – whether they are of primary, high school or college level. Similarly, when the physical consciousness of man enters into the self of Sachchidananda, “The result is a glorified sleep of the physical mind in which the physical being forgets itself in a kind of conscious Nirvana or else moves about like a thing inert in the hands of Nature, <a id="_idIndexMarker283"></a>jaḍavat, like a leaf in the wind, or otherwise a state of pure happy and free irresponsibility of action, <a id="_idIndexMarker284"></a>bālavat, a divine childhood. But this comes without the higher glories of knowledge and delight which belong to the same status upon a more exalted level. It is an inert realisation of <a id="_idIndexMarker285"></a>Sachchidananda in which there is neither any mastery of the Prakriti by the Purusha nor any sublimation of Nature into her own supreme power, the infinite glories of the Para Shakti.” (CWSA 23, 499). When the vital consciousness of man enters into the self of Sachchidananda, “The result is either a profound state of sheer self-oblivion or else an action driven irresponsibly by the life nature, an exalted enthusiasm of self-abandonment to the great world-energy in its vitalistic dance. The outer being lives in a God-possessed frenzy careless of itself and the world, <a id="_idIndexMarker286"></a>unmattavat, or with an entire disregard whether of the conventions and proprieties of fitting human action or of the harmony and rhythms of a greater Truth. It acts as the unbound vital being, <a id="_idIndexMarker287"></a>piśācavat, the divine maniac or else the divine demoniac. Here too there is no mastery or supreme sublimation of nature.” (CWSA 23, 500)</p>
			<p class="commentary">“The mind soul and mind consciousness in man, manomaya puruṣa, can in the same direct way reflect and enter into Sachchidananda by a reflection of the Soul as it mirrors itself in the nature of pure universal mind luminous, unwalled, happy, plastic, illimitable, or by absorption in the vast free unconditioned uncentred Self within it and without it. The result is either the immobile cessation of all mind and action or a desire-free unbound action watched by the unparticipating inner Witness. The mental being becomes the eremite soul alone in the world and careless of all human ties or the saint soul that lives in a rapturous God-nearness or felicitous identity and in joyful relations of pure love and ecstasy towards all creatures. The mental being may even realise the Self in all three planes together. Then he is all these things alternately, successively or at once. Or he may transform the lower forms into manifestations of the higher state; he may draw upward the childlikeness or the inert irresponsibility of the free physical mind or the free vital mind’s divine madness and carelessness of all rules, proprieties, harmonies and colour or disguise with them the ecstasy of the saint or the solitary liberty of the wandering eremite. Here again there is no mastery, no sublimation of the Nature by the soul in the world …. Mind can arrive only at a compromise between the infinite within and the finite nature without; it cannot pour the infinity of the inner being’s knowledge and power and bliss with any sense of fullness into its external action which remains always inadequate. Still it is content and free because it is the Lord within who takes up the responsibility of the action adequate or inadequate, assumes its guidance and fixes its consequence.</p>
			<p class="commentary">But the gnostic soul, the vijñānamaya puruṣa, is the first to participate not only in the freedom, but in the power and sovereignty of the Eternal.”<span id="footnote-008-backlink"><a class="_idFootnoteLink _idGenColorInherit" href="BharatiyaSamskritiEnglishCommentary-21.xhtml#footnote-008">[8]</a></span> (CWSA 23, 500-501)</p>
			<p class="commentary">Only when one looks at the entire progression of Sanatana Dharma from this perspective, can one get some glimpse of its great effort, and then the whole course of its development appears to be throughout a perfectly consistent movement of the spirit progressively manifesting itself from its highest peaks to its most material parts. Once having caught a glimpse of this secret Wisdom at work, one may rest assured, even in the face of the most opposite and trying circumstances, that this Divine Wisdom is constantly at work to lead this culture to its goal of a complete divine realisation. ‡</p>
			<hr class="HorizontalRule-1" />
			<div class="_idFootnotes">
				<div id="footnote-008" class="_idFootnote" epub:type="footnote">
					<p class="Footnote"><a class="_idFootnoteAnchor _idGenColorInherit" href="BharatiyaSamskritiEnglishCommentary-21.xhtml#footnote-008-backlink">[8]</a> The <a id="_idIndexMarker288"></a>Vijñānamaya is the traditional name for the Supramental.</p>
				</div>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
