<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>BharatiyaSamskritiEnglishCommentary-3</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="BharatiyaSamskritiEnglishCommentary-3" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div id="_idContainer014">
			<h1 id="_idParaDest-3" class="Headline">1. What Is India?</h1>
			<p class="Body-Text">“India is not the earth, rivers and mountains of this land, neither is it a collective name for the inhabitants of this country. <a id="_idIndexMarker000"></a>India is a living being, as much living as, say, Shiva. India is a goddess as Shiva is a god. If she likes, she can manifest in human form.”1</p>
			<p class="commentary">‡ Sri Aurobindo had a living experience of the soul of India, so here he has opened before us a very novel and unique perspective. According to him, just as Lord Shiva, Sri Radha and other gods and goddesses have their own separate Being, similarly the Goddess of India has her own separate Being, which has its special mission. Considering the example of an <a id="_idIndexMarker001"></a>individual soul, in its true being it is essentially one with the Paramatman and comes into this terrestrial manifestation, perhaps, with the aim of manifesting one attribute, one special aspect from among the infinite aspects of the Paramatman. So, in evolution it takes up a personality made up of a mind, vital and physical. This personality, a conglomerate of many personalities, has into it the entry of the different levels of consciousness, ranging from the inconscient and subconscient to the deepest and highest superconscient levels. That is why in life we see such infinite complexity, so many dualities – like pain and pleasure, loss and gain, success and failure, rise and fall. Making use of all these complexities, the Divine effectuates the manifestation of that special attribute which in the embodied soul is ingrained as the inner faith. Even in an individual’s life we can see such infinite variety and complexities – which tend to increase successively as he ascends to the higher and deeper levels of consciousness – and only after a long evolution of many many lives does an individual being begin to move towards its culmination, so how much more difficult it must be for us to even conceive of the dimensions and vicissitudes involved in the evolution of a cosmic being. Sri Aurobindo says that just as an individual has a separate being, similarly a nation too has a separate being. The Earth has its own distinct being as has the solar system and the universe. Each of these beings have their own inherent truth which they have to express. Similarly India too has a separate being which has its own profound truth that it has to express. When even in an individual being, it takes a long time for the soul to come to the front and effectuate its true expression, then the time taken in the development of a collective being must be very great by any of our human standards of time. When a person comes into contact with that being and has the experience of its soul only then can the person know something about its true purpose, about its past, present and future development, about its destiny. Without that contact and experience he always sees and judges things, persons, happenings etc. only superficially and fails to understand their true reason and their true course of movement. Having this direct experience and identification, Sri Aurobindo discusses in his work ‘The Human Cycle’ that the earth has a special destiny and has a place of distinction in the whole universe. And even in that, India has a very special place. From this wide perspective he reveals the past, present and the future course of the whole human race. At the same time, he reveals how during this entire course of development the function of India has always been to unlock the soul’s riches for the world and in future too her role would be to lead the world in the movement towards an integral fulfilment of the Divine Law on this earth. Only when we look with this perspective do we somewhat understand the deep logic behind the whole course of the development of our culture from its Vedic age to the present time and on the basis of that can be assured of India’s splendid future. But before India is ready to fulfil her great role, she must first rise out of the present degenerate condition and develop a strong nationalism and emerge as a powerful nation. The institutions, organizations, policies etc. which will prove to be helpful in the development of this nationalism will be the only ones that will be able to last, all the others will be discarded as alien elements. But unlike other nations the rise of India will not be to become powerful only to fulfil her self-interests. In the words of Sri Aurobindo, “She does not rise as other countries do, for self or when she is strong, to trample on the weak. She is rising to shed the eternal light entrusted to her over the world. India has always existed for humanity and not for herself and it is for humanity and not for herself that she must be great.”(CWSA 8, 6)</p>
			<p class="commentary"> Qs: How can this being manifest in a human form?</p>
			<p class="commentary"> Ans: We have the example of Sri Aurobindo before us. It was as if the soul of India found a concrete expression in him. Though in himself Sri Aurobindo represents a decisive action of the Supreme and by announcing the transformation of the entire earthly manifestation gives to the destiny of the whole earth a new dimension, but at the same time it seems that the soul of India has found its fullest self-expression in him. The secrets of the Indian culture, its spirit, its Sanatana Dharma, the Gita, the Vedas, Upanishads, Puranas, etc. have all been revealed, revived and re-established by him. In the past also, the soul of India has been given a voice from time to time through Swami Vivekananda, Guru Govind Singh, Shivaji and numerous other great souls. ‡</p>
			<p class="_stars">* * *</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">“Mother India is not a piece of earth; she is a Power, a Godhead, for all nations have such a Devi supporting their separate existence and keeping it in being. Such Beings are as real and more permanently real than the men they influence, but they belong to a higher plane, are part of the cosmic consciousness and being and act here on earth by shaping the human consciousness on which they exercise their influence.”²</p>
			<p class="_stars">* * *</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">“The Soul of India is one and indivisible. India is conscious of her mission in the world. She is waiting for the exterior means of manifestation.”3</p>
			<p class="_stars">* * *</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">INVOCATION, 15 August 1947</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">“O our Mother, O Soul of India, Mother who hast never forsaken thy children even in the days of darkest depression, even when they turned away from thy voice, served other masters and denied thee, now when they have arisen and the light is on thy face in this dawn of thy liberation, in this great hour we salute thee. Guide us so that the horizon of freedom opening before us may be also a horizon of true greatness and of thy true life in the community of the nations. Guide us so that we may be always on the side of great ideals and show to men thy true visage, as a leader in the ways of the spirit and a friend and helper of all the peoples.”4</p>
			<p class="_stars">* * *</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">“In the whole creation the earth has a place of distinction, because unlike any other planet it is evolutionary with a psychic entity at its centre. In it, India, in particular, is a divinely <a id="_idIndexMarker002"></a>chosen country.”5</p>
			<p class="commentary">‡ The Mother has revealed here a profound and occult truth. In our Puranas and other ancient Indian literature also we get indications that even the gods wish to be born as humans, but Sri Aurobindo and the Mother have revealed the occult secret behind these things in a manner that we seldom find elsewhere. According to them, this entire universe is created as if the Divine wanted to manifest himself in circumstances completely opposite to his true self. And it is a great riddle in itself how the Divine who is Sachchidananda (i.e. ever existent, conscious and blissful) comes to manifest his true self again from the seemingly completely opposite circumstances – circumstances of Falsehood instead of Truth, complete Unconsciousness and Inconscience instead of Consciousness and pain and suffering instead of Bliss. For the ease of understanding, we may say that when we need to solve a huge problem or want to build something on a grand scale we first try it out on a small scale in the laboratory and only then apply the successful results on the large scale. In this sense the earth is the laboratory of this whole universe. The results obtained here can be applied in the whole universe. This is because on this earth all the other worlds have an entry. When the consciousness descends from its superconscient levels to the complete Inconscience, this process creates a descending series of increasingly dense planes which Sri Aurobindo calls the true mind, the true vital, the true physical. But when after the involution, the <a id="_idIndexMarker003"></a>evolution of consciousness begins, then the physical, vital and mind evolve, but because of their Inconscient origin all kinds of impurities can be seen in them. But since all the different levels of consciousness have an entry into this earthly manifestation, when there is a descent of the divine consciousness and there is a divine manifestation here then it has its effect on all the other worlds. That is why in the whole creation the earth has a very <a id="_idIndexMarker004"></a>special place. Whatever is realised here effects spontaneously the whole universe.</p>
			<p class="commentary">In the Puranas and other scriptures we find the description of myriad worlds. In them when we read the descriptions of the worlds of goddesses, worlds of the gods, world of Truth, of Sāketadhāma, of Goloka and of various other higher and subtle worlds, of their grandeur, their splendour, their great power, their immense and unimaginable opulence, then the earth seems to be nothing compared to their magnificence. In Sri Aurobindo’s epic ‘Savitri’ we find a vast scheme of higher, lower and deeper levels of consciousness. Then what is the thing that makes the earth such a special place that even the gods are eager to take birth here? According to Sri Aurobindo and the Mother, the earth is the chosen <a id="_idIndexMarker005"></a>laboratory where the difficulties of the universe are concentrated and it is here that the solution will be given and therefore this is the one place where the Supreme Himself has descended. Unlike any other world, the earth is evolutionary, while all other worlds, no matter how magnificent in themselves, remain stationary and cannot ascend or come down because they do not have the contact of the Supreme through the psychic being, which is accessible only on the earth. It is only the earth that has the supreme privilege of the phenomenon of evolution. And since the Supreme Lord himself is always incarnate here, its splendour is far greater than any other world. It is this that the Gita terms ‘parāprakritirjīvabhūtā’<span id="footnote-000-backlink"><a class="_idFootnoteLink _idGenColorInherit" href="BharatiyaSamskritiEnglishCommentary-3.xhtml#footnote-000">[1]</a></span> which means that the Consciousness-Force of the Supreme herself becomes the Jiva (the embodied Soul). This element of the Supreme is innate in the earth as the soul and the psychic being and that is why all possibilities are latent here. No matter how ignorant and obscure the earthly conditions may seem to us on the basis of outer appearances, Sri Aurobindo and the Mother have assured us that after the supramental transformation, after the establishment of the Divine Law, this obscurity of falsehood ignorance, etc. will not persist any longer and the terrestrial evolution will then not be from darkness to light but will be from light to ever greater light and will rise to ever diviner levels. Even on such a special earth, India has been chosen to fulfil a very special role. From the writings of Sri Aurobindo and the Mother and from the ancient Indian literature we come to know that the physical or subtle presence of some perfected souls, in the form of Rishis, have always been presiding and leading this nation towards its true destiny. This is why while today we barely find even the traces of any other ancient cultures, the Indian culture has not only survived the long periods of slavery, suffering, darkness and inertia, but, along with its growing external influence on the whole world, it is greatly increasing its spiritual and cultural influence and is now moving rapidly towards regaining its glory. ‡</p>
			<p class="_stars">* * *</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">“India is the guru of the nations, the physician of the human soul in its profounder maladies; she is destined once more to new-mould the life of the world and restore the peace of the human spirit.”6</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">‡ Qs: What is the meaning of the profound <a id="_idIndexMarker006"></a>maladies of the soul and how has India been their physician?</p>
			<p class="commentary">Ans: At present we can see all around us how the whole socio-economic-political system is centred exclusively around the satisfaction of the lower physical and vital propensities. Essentially, all maladies are born when man ignores his soul and takes his vital and physical impulses as his true self, and it is from this that all physical and psychological problems arise, as we are witnessing today in the whole world. Sri Aurobindo writes at one place, “To see your Self in all creatures and all creatures in your Self – that is the unshakeable foundation of all religion, love, patriotism, philanthropy, humanity, of everything which rises above selfishness and gross utility. For what is <a id="_idIndexMarker007"></a>selfishness? It is mistaking the body &amp; the vital impulses for your true self and seeking their gratification, a gross, narrow and transient pleasure, instead of the stainless bliss of your true self which is the whole Universe &amp; more than the Universe. Selfishness arises from <a id="_idIndexMarker008"></a>Avidya, from the great fundamental ignorance which creates <a id="_idIndexMarker009"></a>Ahankara, the sense of your individual existence, the preoccupation with your own individual existence, which at once leads to <a id="_idIndexMarker010"></a>Desire, to <a id="_idIndexMarker011"></a>Hunger which is <a id="_idIndexMarker012"></a>Death, death to yourself and death to others. The sense that this is I and that is you, and that I must take this or that, or else you will take it, that is the basis of all selfishness; the sense that this I must eat that you, in order to live &amp; avoid being eaten, that is the <a id="_idIndexMarker013"></a>principle of material existence from which arises strife and <a id="_idIndexMarker014"></a>hatred. And so long as the difference between I and you exists, hatred cannot cease, covetousness cannot cease, war cannot cease, evil &amp; sin cannot cease, and because sin cannot cease, sorrow &amp; misery cannot cease.” (CWSA 17, 140)</p>
			<p class="commentary">And this is what we are currently seeing everywhere. But no matter how many outer schemes or policies we make, how much change we make in the outer machinery, until we realise this fundamental truth, we will not be able to truly cure our ills. Sri Aurobindo says that, “This <a id="_idIndexMarker015"></a>erring race of human beings dreams always of perfecting their environment by the machinery of government and society; but it is only by the perfection of the soul within that the outer environment can be perfected. What thou art within, that outside thee thou shalt enjoy; no machinery can rescue thee from the law of thy being.”(CWSA 12, 468)</p>
			<p class="commentary">This has been the true message of India and this is how it has been the physician of the profoundest <a id="_idIndexMarker016"></a>maladies of mankind because it alone has always remained faithful to the Spirit. Once again it will rise and fulfil its destined role. But at present it seems to have been completely overwhelmed by the influence of Western materialism. This is the reason why Swami <a id="_idIndexMarker017"></a>Vivekananda cautioned the Indians that, “...if you <a id="_idIndexMarker018"></a>give up that spirituality, leaving it aside to go after the materialising civilisation of the West, the result will be that in three generations you will be an extinct race; because the backbone of the nation will be broken, the foundation upon which the national edifice has been built will be undermined, and the result will be annihilation all round.”(CWSV 3, 153)</p>
			<p class="commentary">That is why, looking at the current appearances any person of goodwill will feel concerned whether India will perish? If that were to happen then according to Swami Vivekananda, “...from the world all spirituality will be extinct, all moral perfection will be extinct, all sweet-souled sympathy for religion will be extinct, all ideality will be extinct; and in its place will reign the duality of lust and luxury as the male and female deities, with money as its priest, fraud, force, and competition its ceremonies, and the human soul its sacrifice. Such a thing can never be.”(CWSV 4, 347) ‡</p>
			<p class="_stars">* * *</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">“There is only one country in the world that knows that there is only one Truth to which everything should be turned, and that is India. Other countries have forgotten this, but in India it is ingrained in the people, and one day it will come out. ...I know the conditions of the country. Even if <a id="_idIndexMarker019"></a>one person could put himself faithfully at the disposal of the Truth, he could change the country and the world.”7</p>
			<p class="commentary">‡ Therefore, to think that what after all can a single person do, is a mistake. And to justify this by saying that outer circumstances and times are not favourable, people are like this or that – is all a falsehood. When in truth there exists no separate being other than one’s own true self then, to use external circumstances, things and people as an excuse for one’s inaction is a deluded way of seeing things and negates the fundamental truth of one’s being, for so says the Vedanta, ‘<a id="_idIndexMarker020"></a>ekamevadvitiyam’, meaning that there exist no two separate beings. In a true sense, whatever we see around in the outside world, or which-soever states of being or worlds we may have experienced or can ever experience even in our intensest trance, or any of the greater worlds and planes that we may find described somewhere, or even that whom we call the Supreme Self, essentially all of these are projected from our own consciousness only. Therefore, it is a <a id="_idIndexMarker021"></a>fundamental truth that we can never come into contact with anything that has not been projected from within ourselves. So it is necessary that instead of remaining engrossed in his petty surface self, a person should discover his true self and live in it. Sri Aurobindo says in his epic ‘Savitri’ that, “One man’s perfection still can save the world.”(CWSA 34: 531) From a material stand-point a person is nothing whereas spiritually he is everything. So, depending upon whether we identify ourselves with the material part or with the inner spirit, in one case we are nothing and in the other we are everything. Out of ignorance a person blames outer circumstances, his surroundings, other people, the environs, social milieu or even the outer nature he has been endowed with, as obstacles to his progress. Or the person blames fate saying that he has not been given the opportunity to progress. But all these suggestions are deceitful in a sense and just become excuses for the person to not make an effort. It would be better for a person to get out of this deceitful condition as soon as possible and move in the right direction. ‡</p>
			<p class="_stars">* * *</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">“India is the country where the psychic law can and must rule and the time has come for that here. Besides, it is the only possible salvation for this country whose consciousness has unfortunately been distorted by the influence and domination of a foreign nation, but which, in spite of everything, possesses a unique spiritual heritage. </p>
			<p class="Body-Text">Blessings.”8 &#9;&#9;&#9;&#9;(2 August 1970)</p>
			<p class="_stars">* * *</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">“From a spiritual stand-point, India is the foremost country in the world. <a id="_idIndexMarker022"></a>Its mission is to give the example of spirituality. Sri Aurobindo came on earth to teach this to the world.</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">This fact is so obvious, that even a simple, ignorant farmer here is in his heart closer to the Divine than all the intellectuals of Europe.”9</p>
			<p class="_stars">* * *</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">“India shall take her true place in the world only when she will become integrally the messenger of the Divine Life.”10</p>
			<p class="commentary">‡ This will be the culmination of the revelation of the Vedic Rishis. The principle conception of the Truth, the Right and the Vast revealed by them in the Veda would be truly realised only when the ‘Divine Life’ is established upon earth and matter itself is transformed. Sri Aurobindo came for the establishment of this Divine Law which he termed as the Supramental Manifestation. Although, in the whole scheme of the different <a id="_idIndexMarker023"></a>levels of consciousness as propounded by Sri Aurobindo, the <a id="_idIndexMarker024"></a>Supermind itself is only the first of the spiritual levels in which the Spirit can freely express itself. In the planes higher than the Supermind, an increasingly grand and free expression of the Self is possible, but the human mind has no entry into these worlds, so we cannot truly conceive anything about them. But since the splendours of all those diviner worlds are inherent in the human soul, it is only proper that the soul should reveal those inherent possibilities and manifest them. It is for this that Sri Aurobindo and the Mother announced the Supramental Manifestation. They did not leave it as a philosophy or principle but, by a lifelong endeavour, actuated its descent in the subtle physical on the 29th of February, 1956. According to them, the true resolution of the inconscience, ignorance and other problems of the material world can be achieved only by the Supramental transformation. When India will give this message of a ‘Divine Life’ to the whole world – as it is already doing to some extent but must do it integrally now – only then will it be able to gain its true place in the world. ‡</p>
			<p class="_stars">* * *</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">“…Of all the proud nations of the West there is an end determined. When their limited special work for mankind is done they must decay and disappear. But the function of India is to supply the world with a perennial source of light and renovation. Whenever the first play of energy is exhausted and earth grows old and weary, full of materialism, racked with problems she cannot solve, the function of India is to restore the youth of mankind and assure it of immortality. She sends forth a light from her bosom which floods the earth and the heavens, and mankind bathes in it like St. George in the well of life and recovers strength, hope and vitality for its long pilgrimage. Such a time is now at hand. The world needs India and needs her free. The work she has to do now is to organize life in the terms of Vedanta,…”11</p>
			<p class="commentary">‡ Qs: ‘Of all the <a id="_idIndexMarker025"></a>proud nations of the West there is an end determined. When their limited special work for mankind is done they must decay and disappear.’ What is the meaning of this?</p>
			<p class="commentary">Ans: The permanence of any nation depends on its fundamental idea about existence. Whatever physical, vital and mental forms there are in this world, they all derive their truth from the Eternal. The closer they are to the Eternal, the more permanence they will have. But if one considers the Eternal as only distantly true and confuses Him with His physical or psychical manifestations in this world, then it is a relatively false and impermanent ideal, and for this very reason one will not be able to survive for long. </p>
			<p class="commentary">The <a id="_idIndexMarker026"></a>Greeks confused the Eternal with His physical manifestations and realised Him in the aspect of beauty; beauty therefore was the only law of morality which governed their civilization. Even their ethics were based on the avoidance of excesses in all directions, that is, to avoid excessive virtue as much as excessive vice, because for them, the excessiveness of either was hurtful to the sense of beauty. The whole system of governance was based on keeping a fine balance between one’s responsibilities to oneself and one’s obligations to others, and the sense of proportion was the one law of restraint in their private ethics. This was the peculiarity of the Greek culture and also the very reason for its failure to endure as a separate culture. The <a id="_idIndexMarker027"></a>Roman culture conceived and defined the Eternal not in the aspect of beauty but of force governed by law, and accordingly erected their whole social and political structure and systematised their ethics. By religion they meant a constraint that bounded by certain fixed laws and they restrained life by strictly moulding it according to them. Discipline stood as the keynote of their system; discipline of the actions created an inelastic faithfulness to domestic and public duties; and since discipline greatly exercises a check on animal impulses, it produced an orderly courage and a cold, hard purity. Although all this strict discipline was very favourable to the creation of a powerful and well-ordered State and it is this that made the Roman civilization more long lived than the Greek, but it was not at all a favourable environment for the development of a many-sided civilization and it is due to this shortcoming that the Roman culture too could not last.</p>
			<p class="commentary">Similarly, the civilisations that we know of today or of which some traces are found, all of them sooner or later ceased to exist due to the insufficiency of their conception of the Eternal. It is in this sense that we may say that all of these have been experiments of nature in the cosmic evolution whose results clearly show us that every aspect of the Divine has its own truth but, when applied or insisted upon with exclusiveness, it turns into falsehood and, that is why, once its limited special work is done it must disappear. The peculiarity of the <a id="_idIndexMarker028"></a>Indian culture has been that it raised the surface veil and saw the Eternal in its true form. But it saw the Eternal not only as the Universal Transcendent Self but also saw the same as the particular Self in each. It reached the singleness of the Eternal separate from this phenomenal universe, and at the same time saw the same Eternal pervading the numberless manifestations of the universe. It is this comprehensive and integral realisation that did not allow any kind of rigidity to enter into its philosophy and prepared infinite number of paths for reaching the Transcendent. It is because of its many-sidedness and plasticity that this culture exists even today. Also, whatever qualities or specialties other cultures had developed, they were present in this culture more completely and it is because of the wideness of these conceptions that the defects seen in exclusive or one-sided conceptions elsewhere are not seen here. In this context Sri Aurobindo writes about Indians that, “They had in full measure the Roman discipline, courage, purity, faithfulness to duty, careful conservatism; but these elements of character &amp; culture which in the Roman were hard, cold, narrow and without any touch of the spirit in man or the sense of his divine individuality, the <a id="_idIndexMarker029"></a>Hindus warmed &amp; softened with emotional &amp; spiritual meaning and made broad and elastic by accepting the supreme importance of the soul’s individual life as overriding and governing the firm organization of morals and society. They were not purely devoted to the worship and culture of beauty like the Greeks and their art was not perfect, yet they had the sense of beauty &amp; art in a greater degree than any other ancient people; unlike the Greeks they had a perfect sense of spiritual beauty and were therefore able to realise the delight &amp; glory of Nature hundreds of years before the sense of it developed in Europe. On the ethical side they had a finer justice than the Greeks, a more noble public decorum, a keener sense of ethical &amp; social balance, but they would not limit the infinite capacities of the soul; they gave play therefore to personal individuality but restrained and ordered its merely lawless ebullitions by the law of the type (caste). In addition to these various elements which they shared with one civilization or another they possessed a higher spiritual ideal which governed &amp; overrode the mere ethics (mores or customary morality) which the other nations had developed. Humanity, pity, chivalry, unselfishness, philanthropy, love of and self-sacrifice for all living things, the sense of the divinity in man, the Christian virtues, the modern virtues were fully developed in India at a time when in all the rest of the world they were either non-existent or existent only in the most feeble beginnings. And they were developed, because the Aryan <a id="_idIndexMarker030"></a>Rishis had been able to discover the truth of the Eternal and give to the nation the vision of the Eternal in all things and the feeling of His presence in themselves and in all around them. ”(CWSA 17, 221) ‡</p>
			<p class="_stars">* * *</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">“India has in herself a faith of superhuman virtue to accomplish miracles, to deliver herself out of irrefragable bondage, to bring God down upon earth. She has a secret of will power which no other nation possesses. All she needs to rouse in her that faith, that will, is an ideal which will induce her to make the effort.”12 </p>
			<p class="_stars">* * *</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">“India cannot perish, our race cannot become extinct, because among all the divisions of mankind it is to India that is reserved the highest and the most splendid destiny, the most essential to the future of the human race. It is she who must send forth from herself the future religion of the entire world, the Eternal religion which is to harmonise all religion, science and philosophies and make mankind one soul. In the sphere of morality, likewise, it is her <a id="_idIndexMarker031"></a>mission to purge barbarism (<a id="_idIndexMarker032"></a>mlecchahood) out of humanity and to aryanise the world. In order to do this, she must first re-aryanise herself.”13 </p>
			<p class="_stars">* * *</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">“This nation is not a new race raw from the workshop of Nature or created by modern circumstances. One of the oldest races and greatest civilisations on this earth, the most indomitable in vitality, the most fecund in greatness, the deepest in life, the most wonderful in potentiality, after taking into itself numerous sources of strength from foreign strains of blood and other types of human civilisation, is now seeking to lift itself for good into an organised national unity. Formerly a congeries of kindred nations with a single life and a single culture, always by the law of this essential oneness tending to unity, always by its excess of fecundity engendering fresh diversities and divisions, it has never yet been able to overcome permanently the almost insuperable obstacles to the organisation of a continent. The time has now come when those obstacles can be overcome. The attempt which our race has been making throughout its long history, it will now make under entirely new circumstances. A keen observer would predict its success ... because the freedom, unity and greatness of India have now become necessary to the world.”14</p>
			<p class="_stars">* * *</p>
			<hr class="HorizontalRule-1" />
			<div class="_idFootnotes">
				<div id="footnote-000" class="_idFootnote" epub:type="footnote">
					<p class="Footnote"><a class="_idFootnoteAnchor _idGenColorInherit" href="BharatiyaSamskritiEnglishCommentary-3.xhtml#footnote-000-backlink">[1]</a>&#9;Gita VII.5</p>
				</div>
			</div>
		</div>
		<div id="_idContainer015">
			<p class="Body-Text">References:</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">1.&#9;CWM 13: 372&#9;</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">2.&#9;CWSA 28: 482&#9;</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">3.&#9;CWM 13: 351&#9;</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">4.&#9;CWM 13: 352&#9;</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">5.&#9;CWM 13: 368&#9;</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">6.&#9;CWSA 07: 906&#9;</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">7.&#9;India the Mother: 184, Mira Aditi Centre, Mysore, 1998&#9;</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">8.&#9;CWM 13: 370&#9;</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">9.&#9;India the Mother: 232, Mira Aditi Centre, Mysore, 1998&#9;</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">10.&#9;India the Mother: 234, Mira Aditi Centre, Mysore, 1998&#9;</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">11.&#9;CWSA 07: 1086&#9;</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">12.&#9;CWSA 07: 1017&#9;</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">13.&#9;CWSA 06: 84&#9;</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">14.&#9;CWSA 08: 23</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">CWM: Collected Works of the Mother, Sri Aurobindo Ashram Trust 1978, Puducherry, Second Edition 2004</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">CWSA: Complete Works of Sri Aurobindo, Sri Aurobindo Ashram Trust, Puducherry</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">CWSV: Complete Works of Swami Vivekananda, Mayavati Memorial Edition, Published by Advaita Ashram, Kolkata.</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">Yogi Sri Krishnaprem, by Sri Dilip Kumar Roy, Publisher Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, 3rd Edition, 1992</p>
		</div>
		<div class="_idGenObjectLayout-1">
			<div id="_idContainer016" class="Basic-Graphics-Frame">
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
