<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>BharatiyaSamskritiEnglishCommentary-32</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="BharatiyaSamskritiEnglishCommentary-32" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-52" class="Subhead1">I. The <a id="_idIndexMarker345"></a>Spirit of Ancient India</h2>
			<p class="Body-Text">“The spirit of ancient India was aristocratic; its thought &amp; life moulded in the cast of a high &amp; proud nobility, an extreme &amp; lofty strenuousness. The very best in thought, the very best in action, the very best in character, the very best in literature &amp; art, the very best in religion and all the world well lost if only this very best might be attained, such was the spirit of ancient India. The <a id="_idIndexMarker346"></a>Brahmin who devoted himself to poverty &amp; crushed down every desire in the wholehearted pursuit of knowledge &amp; religious self-discipline; the <a id="_idIndexMarker347"></a>Kshatriya who, hurling his life joyously into the shock of chivalrous battle, held life, wife, children, possessions, ease, happiness as mere dust in the balance compared with honour &amp; the Kshatriya dharma, the preservation of self-respect, the protection of the weak, the noble fulfilment of princely duty; the <a id="_idIndexMarker348"></a>Vaishya, who toiling all his life to amass riches, poured them out as soon as amassed in self-forgetting philanthropy holding himself the mere steward &amp; not the possessor of his wealth; the <a id="_idIndexMarker349"></a>Shudra who gave himself up loyally to humble service, faithfully devoting his life to his dharma, however low, in preference to self-advancement &amp; ambition; these were the social ideals of the age.</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">The imagination of the Indian tended as has been well said to the grand &amp; enormous in thought and morals. The great formative images of legend &amp; literature to the likeness with which his childhood was encouraged to develop &amp; which his manhood most cherished were of an extreme &amp; lofty type. He saw Harischundra give up all that life held precious &amp; dear rather than that his lips should utter a lie or his plighted word be broken. He saw Prahlada buried under mountains, whelmed in the seas, tortured by the poison of a thousand venomous serpents, yet calmly true to his faith. He saw Buddha give up his royal state, wealth, luxury, wife, child &amp; parents so that mankind might be saved. He saw Shivi hew the flesh from his own limbs to save one small dove from the pursuing falcon; Karna tear his own body with a smile for the joy of making a gift; Duryodhan refuse to yield one inch of earth without noble resistance &amp; warlike struggle. He saw Sita face exile, hardship, privation &amp; danger in the eagerness of wifely love &amp; duty, Savitri rescue by her devotion her husband back from the visible grip of death. These were the classical Indian types. These were the ideals into the mould of which the minds of men &amp; women were trained to grow. The sense-conquering thought of the philosopher, the magnificent achievements of the hero, the stupendous renunciations of the Sannyasin, [the] unbounded liberality of the man of wealth, everything was exaggeration, extreme, filled with an epic inspiration, a world-defying enthusiasm.”1</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">“The ancient Indian culture attached quite as much value to the soundness, growth and strength of the mind, life and body as the old Hellenic or the modern scientific thought, although for a different end and a greater motive. Therefore to everything that serves and belongs to the healthy fullness of these things, it gave free play, to the activity of the reason, to science and philosophy, to the satisfaction of the aesthetic being and to all the many arts great or small, to the health and strength of the body, to the physical and economical well-being, ease, opulence of the race, – there was never a national ideal of poverty in India as some would have us believe, nor was bareness or squalor the essential setting of her spirituality, – and to its general military, political and social strength and efficiency. Their aim was high, but firm and wide too was the base they sought to establish and great the care bestowed on these first instruments.”2</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">Thus one can safely say that, “…Indian civilisation has been the form and expression of a culture as great as any of the historic civilisations of mankind, great in religion, great in philosophy, great in science, great in thought of many kinds, great in literature, art and poetry, great in the organisation of society and politics, great in craft and trade and commerce. There have been dark spots, positive imperfections, heavy shortcomings; what civilisation has been perfect, which has not had its deep stains and cruel abysses? There have been considerable lacunae, many blind alleys, much uncultured or ill-cultured ground: what civilisation has been without its unfilled parts, its negative aspects? But our ancient civilisation can survive the severest comparisons of either ancient or mediaeval times. More high-reaching, subtle, many-sided, curious and profound than the Greek, more noble and humane than the Roman, more large and spiritual than the old Egyptian, more vast and original than any other Asiatic civilisation, more intellectual than the European prior to the eighteenth century, possessing all that these had and more, it was the most powerful, self-possessed, stimulating and wide in influence of all past human cultures.”3</p>
			<p class="commentary">‡ If we try to delve deeper into the heart of this splendid account of the aristocratic spirit of Indian culture, we may be sure to arrive at a deep perception — although there may be many others — that such a lofty atmosphere inspiring one to attain the very best in thought, life and action could have been possible only by virtue of the great founders of this culture who, being themselves firmly established in the depths of their heart rather than living on the surface, raised the collectivity also to enable it to live more and more from the depths of its heart. It is the heart alone that can give the necessary zeal, intensity and energy indispensable for the realisation of the ideal. It is this intensity that can bring about a complete self-forgetfulness, a willing self-sacrifice for the ideal or for one’s beloved and devour the ego and break the limitations of its petty and narrow mould for the full and wide reception of that which it seeks. This has been the secret of all the great achievements on earth. By outer enforcement of laws and rules, or even some kind of moral disciplining, devoid of any deeper insight, one can at best arrive at a system where people get the utmost chance of fulfilling their ordinary desires within a limited harmonious framework, but which can never be the basis which alone can bring about those superlative achievements such as we find in Indian culture. Those who have some deeper sense of the functioning of things know how difficult it is even for an organisation of persons with a spiritual motive or some higher ideal and, therefore, moved and organised much more by a deeper intuition than any outer regimentation, to continually keep to its original spirit and vigour. To have successfully moulded the collective life to live more from the depths of their hearts than in their outer surface selves and further to have persisted in that noble spirit for centuries, as the record of the achievements of this culture amply bears out, is a sure indicator of the superhuman capacity of this culture. We must realise, once for all, that it is vain to seek any fundamental change or advancement in our individual or collective existence by merely changing or restructuring the outer machinery — politics, administration, industry, education, technology, or any other institution — as is evident enough from the complete failure of all such attempts made now or in the recent past. The power of self-giving and consecration alone can bring about this fundamental change and regeneration and will itself supply all the necessary guidance, schemes or policies etc. The following heartfelt, illuminative words of Sri Aurobindo, written at the time of India’s subjection, bring this entire discussion into sharp focus. “If any reservation mars the completeness of our self-abandonment, if any bargaining abridges the fullness of our sacrifice, if any doubt mars the strength of our faith and enthusiasm, if any thought of self pollutes the sanctity of our love, then the Mother will not be satisfied and will continue to withhold her presence. We call her to come, but the call has not yet gone out of the bottom of our hearts. The Mother’s feet are on the threshold, but she waits to hear the true cry, the cry that rushes out from the heart, before she will enter. We are still hesitating between ourselves and the country; we would give one anna to the service of the Mother and keep fifteen for ourselves, our wives, our children, our property, our fame and reputation, our safety, our ease. The Mother asks all before she will give herself. Not until Surath Raja offered the blood of his veins did the Mother appear to him and ask him to choose his boon. Not until Shivaji was ready to offer his head at the feet of the Mother, did Bhavani in visible form stay his hand and give him the command to free his people.... The schemes by which we seek to prepare the nation, the scheme of industrial regeneration, the scheme of educational regeneration, the scheme of political regeneration through self-help are subordinate features of the deeper regeneration which the country must go through before it can be free. The Mother asks us for no schemes, no plans, no methods. She herself will provide the schemes, the plans, the methods better than any that we can devise. She asks us for our hearts, our lives, nothing less, nothing more.... Regeneration is literally rebirth and <a id="_idIndexMarker350"></a>rebirth comes not by the intellect, not by the fullness of the purse, not by policy, not by change of machinery, but by the getting of a new heart by throwing away all that we were into the fire of sacrifice and being reborn in the Mother. Self-abandonment is the demand made upon us. She asks of us, ‘How many will live for me? How many will die for me?’ and awaits our answer.” (CWSA 7, 1032-33) ‡</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
