<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>BharatiyaSamskritiEnglishCommentary-30</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="BharatiyaSamskritiEnglishCommentary-30" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-50" class="Subhead1">VI. The Record of the Great <a id="_idIndexMarker343"></a>Achievements of India in Every Field</h2>
			<p class="Body-Text">“To say that there has been no great or vivid activity of life in India, that she has had no great personalities with the mythical exception of Buddha and the other pale exception of Asoka, that she has never shown any will-power and never done any great thing, is so contrary to all the facts of history that only a devil’s advocate in search of a case could advance it at all or put it with that crude vehemence. India has lived and lived greatly, whatever judgment one may pass on her ideas and institutions. What is meant after all by life and when is it that we most fully and greatly live? Life is surely nothing but the creation and active self-expression of man’s spirit, powers, capacities, his will to be and think and create and love and do and achieve. When that is wanting or, since it cannot be absolutely wanting, depressed, held under, discouraged or inert, whether by internal or external causes, then we may say that there is a lack of life. ... The ancient and mediaeval life of India was not wanting in any of the things that make up the vivid interesting activity of human existence. On the contrary, it was extraordinarily full of colour and interest. ... India has been as much a home of serious and solid realities, of a firm grappling with the problems of thought and life, of measured and wise organisation and great action as any other considerable centre of civilisation. ... The colour and magnificence have been its aesthetic side; she has had great dreams and high and splendid imaginations, for that too is wanted for the completeness of our living; but also deep philosophical and religious thinking, a wide and searching criticism of life, a great political and social order, a strong ethical tone and a persistent vigour of individual and communal living. That is a combination which means life in all its fullness, though deficient, it may be, except in extraordinary cases, in the more violent egoistic perversities and exaggerations which some minds seem to take for a proof of the highest vigour of existence.</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">In what field indeed has not India attempted, achieved, created, and in all on a large scale and yet with much attention to completeness of detail? Of her spiritual and philosophic achievement there can be no real question. They stand there as the Himalayas stand upon the earth in the phrase of Kalidasa, pṛthivyā iva mānadaṇḍaḥ, ‘as if earth’s measuring rod,’ mediating still between earth and heaven, measuring the finite, casting their plummet far into the infinite, plunging their extremities into the upper and lower seas of the superconscient and the subliminal, the spiritual and the natural being. But if her philosophies, her religious disciplines, her long list of great spiritual personalities, thinkers, founders, saints are her greatest glory, as was natural to her temperament and governing idea, they are by no means her sole glories, nor are the others dwarfed by their eminence. It is now proved that in science she went farther than any country before the modern era, and even Europe owes the beginning of her physical science to India as much as to Greece, although not directly but through the medium of the Arabs. And, even if she had only gone as far, that would have been sufficient proof of a strong intellectual life in an ancient culture. Especially in mathematics, astronomy and chemistry, the chief elements of ancient science, she discovered and formulated much and well and anticipated by force of reasoning or experiment some of the scientific ideas and discoveries which Europe first arrived at much later, but was able to base more firmly by her new and completer method. She was well-equipped in surgery and her system of medicine survives to this day and has still its value, though it declined intermediately in knowledge and is only now recovering its vitality.</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">In literature, in the life of the mind, she lived and built greatly. Not only has she the Vedas, Upanishads and Gita, not to speak of less supreme but still powerful or beautiful work in that field, unequalled monuments of religious and philosophic poetry, a kind in which Europe has never been able to do anything much of any great value, but that vast national structure, the Mahabharata, gathering into its cycle the poetic literature and expressing so completely the life of a long formative age, that it is said of it in a popular saying which has the justice if also the exaggeration of a too apt epigram, ‘What is not in this Bharata, is not in Bharatavarsha (India),’ and the Ramayana, the greatest and most remarkable poem of its kind, that most sublime and beautiful epic of ethical idealism and a heroic semi-divine human life, and the marvellous richness, fullness and colour of the poetry and romance of highly cultured thought, sensuous enjoyment, imagination, action and adventure which makes up the romantic literature of her classical epoch. Nor did this long continuous vigour of creation cease with the loss of vitality by the Sanskrit tongue, but was paralleled and carried on in a mass of great or of beautiful work in her other languages, in Pali first and Prakrit, much unfortunately lost,<span id="footnote-014-backlink"><a class="_idFootnoteLink _idGenColorInherit" href="BharatiyaSamskritiEnglishCommentary-30.xhtml#footnote-014">[14]</a></span> and Tamil, afterwards in Hindi, Bengali, Marathi and other tongues. The long tradition of her architecture, sculpture and painting speaks for itself, even in what survives after all the ruin of stormy centuries: whatever judgment may be formed of it by the narrower school of Western aesthetics, – and at least its fineness of execution and workmanship cannot be denied, nor the power with which it renders the Indian mind, – it testifies at least to a continuous creative activity. And creation is proof of life and great creation of greatness of life.</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">But these things are, it may be said, the things of the mind, and the intellect, imagination and aesthetic mind of India may have been creatively active, but yet her outward life depressed, dull, poor, gloomy with the hues of asceticism, void of willpower and personality, ineffective, null. That would be a hard proposition to swallow; for literature, art and science do not flourish in a void of life. But here too what are the facts? India has not only had the long roll of her great saints, sages, thinkers, religious founders, poets, creators, scientists, scholars, legists; she has had her great rulers, administrators, soldiers, conquerors, heroes, men with the strong active will, the mind that plans and the seeing force that builds. She has warred and ruled, traded and colonised and spread her civilisation, built polities and organised communities and societies, done all that makes the outward activity of great peoples. A nation tends to throw out its most vivid types in that line of action which is most congenial to its temperament and expressive of its leading idea, and it is the great saints and religious personalities that stand at the head in India and present the most striking and continuous roll-call of greatness, just as Rome lived most in her warriors and statesmen and rulers. The Rishi in ancient India was the outstanding figure with the hero just behind, while in later times the most striking feature is the long uninterrupted chain from Buddha and Mahavira to Ramanuja, Chaitanya, Nanak, Ramdas and Tukaram and beyond them to Ramakrishna and Vivekananda and Dayananda. But there have been also the remarkable achievements of statesmen and rulers, from the first dawn of ascertainable history which comes in with the striking figures of Chandragupta, Chanakya, Asoka, the Gupta emperors and goes down through the multitude of famous Hindu and Mahomedan figures of the middle age to quite modern times. In ancient India there was the life of republics, oligarchies, democracies, small kingdoms of which no detail of history now survives, afterwards the long effort at empire-building, the colonisation of Ceylon and the Archipelago, the vivid struggles that attended the rise and decline of the Pathan and Mogul dynasties, the Hindu struggle for survival in the south, the wonderful record of Rajput heroism and the great upheaval of national life in Maharashtra penetrating to the lowest strata of society, the remarkable episode of the Sikh Khalsa. An adequate picture of that outward life still remains to be given; once given it would be the end of many fictions. All this mass of action was not accomplished by men without mind and will and vital force, by pale shadows of humanity in whom the vigorous manhood had been crushed out under the burden of a gloomy and all-effacing asceticism, nor does it look like the sign of a metaphysically minded people of dreamers averse to life and action. It was not men of straw or lifeless and will-less dummies or thin-blooded dreamers who thus acted, planned, conquered, built great systems of administration, founded kingdoms and empires, figured as great patrons of poetry and art and architecture or, later, resisted heroically imperial power and fought for the freedom of clan or people. Nor was it a nation devoid of life which maintained its existence and culture and still lived on and broke out constantly into new revivals under the ever increasing stress of continuously adverse circumstances. The modern Indian revival, religious, cultural, political, called now sometimes a renaissance, which so troubles and grieves the minds of her critics, is only a repetition under altered circumstances, in an adapted form, in a greater though as yet less vivid mass of movement, of a phenomenon which has constantly repeated itself throughout a millennium of Indian history.</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">And it must be remembered that by virtue of its culture and its system the whole nation shared in the common life. In all countries in the past the mass has indeed lived with a less active and vivid force than the few, – sometimes with the mere elements of life, not with even any beginning of finished richness, – nor has modern civilisation yet got rid of this disparity, though it has opened the advantages or at least the initial opportunities of a first-hand life and thought and knowledge to a greater number. But in ancient India, though the higher classes led and had the lion’s share of the force and wealth of life, the people too lived and until much later times intensely though on a lesser scale and with a more diffused and less concentrated force. Their religious life was more intense than that of any other country; they drank in with remarkable facility the thoughts of the philosophers and the influence of the saints; they heard and followed Buddha and the many who came after him; they were taught by the Sannyasins and sang the songs of the Bhaktas and Bauls and thus possessed some of the most delicate and beautiful poetical literature ever produced; they contributed many of the greatest names in our religion, and from the outcastes themselves came saints revered by the whole community. In ancient Hindu times they had their share of political life and power; they were the people, the viśaḥ of the Veda, of whom the kings were the leaders and from them as well as from the sacred or princely families were born the Rishis; they held their villages as little self-administered republics; in the time of the great kingdoms and empires they sat in the municipalities and urban councils and the bulk of the typical royal Council described in the books of political science was composed of commoners, Vaishyas, and not of Brahmin Pundits and Kshatriya nobles; for a long time they could impose their will on their kings, without the need of a long struggle, by a single demonstration of their displeasure. So long as Hindu kingdoms existed, something of all this survived, and even the entrance into India of central Asian forms of absolutist despotism, never an indigenous Indian growth, left some remnant of the old edifice still in being. The people had their share too in art and poetry, their means by which the essence of Indian culture was disseminated through the mass, a system of elementary education in addition to the great universities of ancient times, a type of popular dramatic representation which was in some parts of the country alive even yesterday; they gave India her artists and architects and many of the famous poets in the popular tongues; they preserved by the force of their long past culture an innate aesthetic sense and faculty of which the work of Indian craftsmen remained a constant and striking evidence until it was destroyed or degraded by the vulgarisation and loss of aesthetic sense and beauty which has been one of the results of modern civilisation. Nor was the life of India ascetic, gloomy or sad, as the too logical mind of the critic would have it be. The outward form is more quiet than in other countries, there is a certain gravity and reserve before strangers which deceives the foreign observer, and in recent times asceticism and poverty and an increase of puritanic tendency had their effect, but the life portrayed in the <a id="_idIndexMarker344"></a>literature of the country is glad and vivid, and even now despite certain varieties of temperament and many forces making for depression laughter, humour, an unobtrusive elasticity and equanimity in the vicissitudes of life are very marked features of the Indian character.</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">The whole theory of a want of life and will and activity in the Indian people as a result of their culture is then a myth.”67</p>
			<hr class="HorizontalRule-1" />
			<div class="_idFootnotes">
				<div id="footnote-014" class="_idFootnote" epub:type="footnote">
					<p class="Footnote"><a class="_idFootnoteAnchor _idGenColorInherit" href="BharatiyaSamskritiEnglishCommentary-30.xhtml#footnote-014-backlink">[14]</a>&#9;E.g. the once famous work in Paisachi of which the Kathāsaritsāgara is an inferior version.</p>
				</div>
			</div>
		</div>
		<div class="_idGenObjectLayout-1">
			<div id="_idContainer018">
			</div>
		</div>
		<div id="_idContainer019" class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<p class="Body-Text">References: </p>
			<p class="Basic-Paragraph">1. &#9;CWSA 20: 120&#9;</p>
			<p class="Basic-Paragraph">2.&#9;CWSA 20: 214-15&#9;3.&#9;CWSA 20: 231-32&#9;4.&#9;CWSA 20: 56-57&#9;</p>
			<p class="Basic-Paragraph">5.&#9;CWSA 20: 34-35&#9;</p>
			<p class="Basic-Paragraph">6.&#9;CWSA 20: 169-70&#9;7.&#9;CWSA 20: 176-77&#9;8.&#9;CWSA 20: 98&#9;</p>
			<p class="Basic-Paragraph">9.&#9;CWSA 20: 118&#9;</p>
			<p class="Basic-Paragraph">10.&#9;CWSA 20: 120-21&#9;11.&#9;CWSA 20: 122-23&#9;12.&#9;CWSA 20: 119-20&#9;13.&#9;CWSA 20: 123-25&#9;14.&#9;CWSA 20: 125-28&#9;15.&#9;CWSA 20: 131-32&#9;16.&#9;CWSA 20: 133-34&#9;17.&#9;CWSA 20: 134-35&#9;18.&#9;CWSA 20: 135-36&#9;19.&#9;CWSA 20: 136-37&#9;20.&#9;CWSA 20: 147-48&#9;21.&#9;CWSA 20: 149-50&#9;22.&#9;CWSA 20: 150&#9;</p>
			<p class="Basic-Paragraph">23.&#9;CWSA 20: 151-53&#9;24.&#9;CWSA 20: 153&#9;</p>
			<p class="Basic-Paragraph">25.&#9;CWSA 20: 153-54&#9;</p>
			<p class="Basic-Paragraph">26.&#9;CWSA 20: 154-56&#9;27.&#9;CWSA 20: 156-58&#9;28.&#9;CWSA 20: 158-61&#9;29.&#9;CWSA 20: 161-62&#9;30.&#9;CWSA 20: 162-64&#9;31.&#9;CWSA 20: 164-66&#9;32.&#9;CWSA 20: 167-68&#9;33.&#9;CWSA 20: 168&#9;</p>
			<p class="Basic-Paragraph">34.&#9;CWSA 20: 168-70&#9;35.&#9;CWSA 20: 170&#9;</p>
			<p class="Basic-Paragraph">36.&#9;CWSA 20: 170-73&#9;</p>
			<p class="Basic-Paragraph">37.&#9;CWSA 20: 173-74&#9;38.&#9;CWSA 20: 174-76&#9;39.&#9;CWSA 20: 178 &#9;</p>
			<p class="Basic-Paragraph">40.&#9;CWSA 20: 178-81&#9;41.&#9;CWSA 20: 181-82&#9;42 .&#9;CWSA 20: 193-95</p>
			<p class="Basic-Paragraph">43.&#9;CWSA 20: 183-86&#9;44.&#9;CWSA 20: 186-88&#9;45.&#9;CWSA 20: 188-92&#9;46.&#9;CWSA 20: 192-93&#9;47.&#9;CWSA 20: 196-98&#9;48.&#9;CWSA 24: 747&#9;</p>
			<p class="Basic-Paragraph">49.&#9;CWSA 20: 198-205&#9;50.&#9;CWSA 20: 205-08&#9;51.&#9;CWSA 20: 208-11&#9;52.&#9;CWSA 20: 211-13&#9;53.&#9;CWSA 20: 216&#9;</p>
			<p class="Basic-Paragraph">54.&#9;CWSA 20: 216&#9;</p>
			<p class="Basic-Paragraph">55.&#9;CWSA 20: 216-17&#9;56.&#9;CWSA 20: 217&#9;</p>
			<p class="Basic-Paragraph">57.&#9;CWSA 20: 218&#9;</p>
			<p class="Basic-Paragraph">58.&#9;CWSA 20: 218-20&#9;59.&#9;CWSA 20: 220-21&#9;60.&#9;CWSA 20: 221-23&#9;61.&#9;CWSA 20: 223-24&#9;62.&#9;CWSA 20: 224-25&#9;63.&#9;CWSA 20: 225-27&#9;64.&#9;CWSA 20: 227-28&#9;65.&#9;CWSA 20: 228-29&#9;66.&#9;CWSA 20: 229-30&#9;67.&#9;CWSA 20: 242-49</p>
		</div>
		<div class="_idGenObjectLayout-1">
			<div id="_idContainer020" class="Basic-Graphics-Frame">
			</div>
		</div>
		<div class="_idGenObjectLayout-1">
			<div id="_idContainer021">
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
