<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>BharatiyaSamskritiEnglishCommentary-50</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="BharatiyaSamskritiEnglishCommentary-50" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h3 id="_idParaDest-70" class="Subhead2">D. The Ancient Rishis’ Perception of the Solution of the Problem: the Ideal of the <a id="_idIndexMarker378"></a>Chakravarti</h3>
			<p class="Body-Text">“The failure to achieve Indian unity of which the invasions and the final subjection to the foreigner were the consequence, arose therefore at once from the magnitude and from the peculiarity of the task, because the easy method of a centralised empire could not truly succeed in India, while yet it seemed the only device possible and was attempted again and again with a partial success that seemed for the time and a long time to justify it, but always with an eventual failure. I have suggested that the early mind of India better understood the essential character of the problem. The Vedic Rishis and their successors made it their chief work to found a spiritual basis of Indian life and to effect the spiritual and cultural unity of the many races and peoples of the peninsula. But they were not blind to the necessity of a political unification. Observing the constant tendency of the clan life of the Aryan peoples to consolidate under confederacies and hegemonies of varying proportions, vairājya, sāmrājya, they saw that to follow this line to its full conclusion was the right way and evolved therefore the ideal of the Chakravarti, a uniting imperial rule, uniting without destroying the autonomy of India’s many kingdoms and peoples, from sea to sea. This ideal they supported, like everything else in Indian life, with a spiritual and religious sanction, set up as its outward symbol the <a id="_idIndexMarker379"></a>Aswamedha and <a id="_idIndexMarker380"></a>Rajasuya sacrifices, and made it the dharma of a powerful King, his royal and religious duty, to attempt the fulfilment of the ideal. He was not allowed by the Dharma to destroy the liberties of the peoples who came under his sway nor to dethrone or annihilate their royal houses or replace their archons by his officials and governors. His function was to establish a suzerain power possessed of sufficient military strength to preserve internal peace and to combine at need the full forces of the country. And to this elementary function came to be added the ideal of the fulfilment and maintenance under a strong uniting hand of the Indian dharma, the right functioning of the spiritual, religious, ethical and social culture of India.</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">The full flowering of the ideal is seen in the great epics. The Mahabharata is the record of a legendary or, it may be, a historic attempt to establish such an empire, a <a id="_idIndexMarker381"></a>dharmarājya or kingdom of the Dharma. There the ideal is pictured as so imperative and widely acknowledged that even the turbulent Shishupala is represented as motiving his submission and attendance at the Rajasuya sacrifice on the ground that Yudhisthira was carrying out an action demanded by the Dharma. And in the Ramayana we have an idealised picture of such a Dharmarajya, a settled universal empire. Here too it is not an autocratic despotism but a universal monarchy supported by a free assembly of the city and provinces and of all the classes that is held up as the ideal, an enlargement of the monarchical state synthetising the communal autonomies of the Indian system and maintaining the law and constitution of the Dharma. The ideal of conquest held up is not a destructive and predatory invasion annihilating the organic freedom and the political and social institutions and exploiting the economic resources of the conquered peoples, but a sacrificial progression bringing with it a trial of military strength of which the result was easily accepted because defeat entailed neither humiliation nor servitude and suffering but merely a strengthening adhesion to a suzerain power concerned only with establishing the visible unity of the nation and the Dharma. The ideal of the ancient Rishis is clear and their purpose: it is evident that they saw the military and political utility and necessity of a unification of the divided and warring peoples of the land, but they saw also that it ought not to be secured at the expense of the free life of the regional peoples or of the communal liberties and not therefore by a centralised monarchy or a rigidly unitarian imperial State.”11</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">“There is no historical evidence that this ideal was ever successfully carried into execution, although the epic tradition speaks of several such empires preceding the Dharmarajya of Yudhisthira. At the time of Buddha and later when <a id="_idIndexMarker382"></a>Chandragupta and <a id="_idIndexMarker383"></a>Chanakya were building the first historic Indian empire, the country was still covered with free kingdoms and republics and there was no united empire to meet the great raid of Alexander. It is evident that if any hegemony had previously existed, it had failed to discover a means or system of enduring permanence. This might however have evolved if time had been given, but a serious change had meanwhile taken place which made it urgently necessary to find an immediate solution. The historic weakness of the Indian peninsula has always been until modern times its vulnerability through the north-western passes. This weakness did not exist so long as ancient India extended northward far beyond the Indus and the powerful kingdoms of Gandhara and Vahlika presented a firm bulwark against foreign invasion. But they had now gone down before the organised Persian empire and from this time forward the trans-Indus countries, ceasing to be part of India, ceased also to be its protection and became instead the secure base for every successive invader. The inroad of Alexander brought home the magnitude of the danger to the political mind of India and from this time we see poets, writers, political thinkers constantly upholding the imperial ideal or thinking out the means of its realisation. The immediate practical result was the rise of the empire founded with remarkable swiftness by the statesmanship of Chanakya and constantly maintained or restored through eight or nine centuries<span id="footnote-016-backlink"><a class="_idFootnoteLink _idGenColorInherit" href="BharatiyaSamskritiEnglishCommentary-50.xhtml#footnote-016">[2]</a></span>, in spite of periods of weakness and incipient disintegration, successively by the Maurya, Sunga, Kanwa, Andhra and Gupta dynasties. The history of this empire, its remarkable organisation, administration, public works, opulence, magnificent culture and the vigour, the brilliance, the splendid fruitfulness of the life of the peninsula under its shelter emerges only from scattered insufficient records, but even so it ranks among the greatest constructed and maintained by the genius of the earth’s great peoples. India has no reason, from this point of view, to be anything but proud of her ancient achievement in empire-building or to submit to the hasty verdict that denies to her antique civilisation a strong practical genius or high political virtue.”12</p>
			<p class="commentary">‡ The mainstay of the accusations of incompetence against Indian polity has been the fact that India could not protect herself from foreign invasions and had to endure a thousand years of continuous foreign invasions, gruesome brutalities and even foreign rule. The barbarous atrocities committed against the Indians would certainly disturb any sympathiser and in such a case it is natural for doubts to arise that, though the nation might have been very spiritually advanced, it failed completely in establishing any kind of defensive and political oneness. But we will never be able to resolve this meaningfully if we try to assess it by superficial modern standards. We will have to delve deep into the core of Indian culture to consider the significant facts – because nothing in Indian culture can be understood if one bases oneself on a surface standpoint and outer appearances. </p>
			<p class="commentary">&#9;When we talk of India’s political consolidation in the past, it important that we appreciate her geographical vastness because the difficulties in such a political unity cannot be compared to that of a small nation. Indian culture and her Rishis stressed her cultural oneness before her political unity because of the difficulties arising from the political vastness of India and even more for reasons so profound that they are difficult to comprehend for our surface human understanding. To obtain a meaningful and comprehensive assessment of the problem, we have to begin by diving into the depths of Indian culture to enter into its spirit and empathise with how this culture saw this problem, then can we accurately gauge how this culture approached its resolution.</p>
			<p class="commentary">&#9;Firstly, we have to keep in mind that this huge geographical entity was home to thousands of societies, classes, races etc. each of which had its own cultural identity with ways of living, worship etc. As we have been discussing from the beginning, the spirit of Indian culture has been the integral Vedic spirit in which the various parts of a human being, each and every aspect of the life, thought and works of the individual and collectivity were connected to the Divine and were given the complete freedom to express the truth of the Divine inherent within them and so, the culture accepted every possible means of approaching the Divine. That is why along with a cultural diversity, there was an ever increasing mass of different spiritual paths, beliefs, sects, doctrines, creeds, philosophies, yogas, Darshanas and a variety of religions. It was only the intuitive intelligence of the Rishis that recognized this vitality of the culture and that, imposing some form of external political unity at the cost of this infinite cultural and spiritual diversity, would risk damaging the spirit of this culture irreparably. Indeed, political unity can be established firmly only on the basis of a living cultural oneness, otherwise, in the absence of such a oneness, a mechanical political unity will eventually disintegrate. It is a fundamental truth that, an effective unity can only be established when every unit within it has the full liberty to move towards its inner reality because only when it is integrated and assimilated in its inner consciousness can it be capable of a genuine outward harmony. Accordingly, it was a conscious and considered decision of the Rishis to reject any political unity achieved by ‘the ordinary means of a centralised uniform imperial State crushing out all that made for free divergence, local autonomies, established communal liberties.’ The first accusation against this willed decision of preserving this cultural and spiritual oneness, is that, in the absence of a powerful united empire India had to suffer debilitating foreign invasions. However, we find many historical examples of militarily powerful political empires which soon disappeared in the face of a lack of any inner oneness. It would also be misleading to say that the insistence of Indian culture on inner unity based on spirituality and culture first was destructive for it. If we step out of our prejudices and biases and looker deeper into history, we will see that the repeated barbaric attempts by aggressors, for centuries, to destroy the physical body and spirit of this culture and root it out, remained futile to the end. It is also noteworthy that careful research is now providing a completely different picture from the one presented of the pitiful and destitute condition of Indian culture. It reveals the extraordinary political astuteness and capability of the culture and this is what Sri Aurobindo is indicating here.</p>
			<p class="commentary">All these discussions have made it indubitably clear that the exceptional proficiency displayed by Indian culture when dealing with the spirit and mind extended even to the most external aspects of life such as politics and governance, which are normally considered the playground of the blind egoistic and hedonistic tendencies of the life-nature with conflict, strife and possessiveness dominating the field and spiritual light finding it impossible to enter. But Indian culture took even these in hand, and there can hardly be a comparable example of the adeptness it employed in handling these and the superlative gains it made in these fields.</p>
			<p class="commentary">&#9;If we look at world-history, we find that governments have been based on various systems and philosophies like democracy, monarchy, socialism, communism among others, but after a certain period, longer or shorter, they have proven to be ineffective and inadequate because the individual and collective human spirit cannot be limited by any single dimensional system. Indian culture understood this from the beginning and as an example of its profound understanding we find that, though externally the government was monarchical it contained elements that incorporated within it the essentials of democracy and all other possible systems of governance. It knew that each system has a truth at its centre and only by truly synthesising these truths can a system be flexible enough to work according to the Spirit. That is why it did not bind itself to any one system, created an original form, which was living and effective and despite resembling in some outward aspects the modern systems, was uniquely Indian. The following example given by Sri Aurobindo will clarify the point: </p>
			<p class="commentary">“Sri Aurobindo : The old <a id="_idIndexMarker384"></a>Indian system grew out of life, it had room for everything and every interest. There were monarchy, aristocracy, democracy. Every interest was represented in the government, while the Western system grew out of the mind. In Europe they are led by reason and want to make everything cut and dry without any chance of freedom or variation. If it is democracy, then democracy only and no room for anything else. They cannot be plastic.</p>
			<p class="commentary">India is now trying to imitate the West. Parliamentary government is not suited to India. But we always take up what the West has thrown off.” (Evening Talks with Sri Aurobindo, Recorded by A. B. Purani 2007, pp. 584-585) </p>
			<p class="commentary">“Disciple: It seems political ideas and ideals are not worth fighting for. Thousands fought for democracy, and now they are in a hurry to give it up! Nothing seems to be permanent in the political field.</p>
			<p class="commentary">Sri Aurobindo: Quite so. All human values are half values – they are relative. They have no permanence or durability about them.</p>
			<p class="commentary">Disciple: Perhaps if men became more mentalised, they would understand things better.</p>
			<p class="commentary">Sri Aurobindo: By being mentalised? No! The difficulty is that men don’t follow the principles of life.</p>
			<p class="commentary">Disciple: How is that?</p>
			<p class="commentary">Sri Aurobindo: Life compromises between different elements, but mind, when acting on its own, does not compromise. Mind takes up one thing and makes it absolute, considers it as apart from and opposed to all other things.</p>
			<p class="commentary">Hegel boasted that in Europe they had succeeded in separating reason from life, and you see their philosophy – it has nothing to do with life; it is all mental gymnastics, it does not form part of life. While in India, philosophy has always been a part of life; it has an aim to realise everything.</p>
			<p class="commentary">So also in the political philosophy of Europe you find that if they accept democracy, it is only democracy – all the rest is opposed to it. If monarchy, then it is only monarchy.</p>
			<p class="commentary">That is what happened in Greece. They fought for democracy, aristocracy and monarchy, and in the end they were conquered by the Romans.</p>
			<p class="commentary">Disciple: Then what is the truth in all these attempts at political organisation?</p>
			<p class="commentary">Sri Aurobindo: If you want to arrive at something true and lasting, you have to look at life and learn from it, that is to say, you must learn the nature of the oppositions and contradictions and then reconcile them.</p>
			<p class="commentary">As regards government, life shows that there is a truth in monarchy – whether hereditary or elective, there is a man at the top who governs. Life also shows that there is a truth in aristocracy, whether it is of strong men, or rich men, or intellectuals. The current fiction is that it is the majority that rules, but the fact is that it is the minority, the aristocracy.</p>
			<p class="commentary">Life also shows that the rule of the king or the aristocracy should be with the consent, silent or vocal, of the people.</p>
			<p class="commentary">In ancient India, they recognised the truth of these things. That is why India has lasted through millenniums – and China also.” (Evening Talks with Sri Aurobindo, Recorded by A. B. Purani 2007 : 675-76)</p>
			<p class="commentary">We find an apposite example of how the democratic spirit was a crucial element in government in the episode of the Ramayana when Dasharatha seeks the counsel and permission of the people before crowning Sri Rama. We find a similar instance in the Mahabharata when Dhritarashtra wants to spend the last years of his life in contemplation in the forest, and is adamant despite the objections of his family, but very humbly asks the people for their permission. This democratic element was not only a façade but generally the operative element. Indian culture knew that real democracy cannot and should not depend on numbers, but ideally, the voice of any person coming from the true authority would be more important than any majority. Can a surgeon, or a pilot or member of any crucial or sensitive profession be selected, not on the basis of capability, but on the basis of a majority vote? There are all kinds of catastrophic consequences if we insist on the external forms at the expense of the essential truth, as the working experiments of the various systems around the world make obvious to any thinking person. It should also be obvious that the more humankind has tried to solve the problems of our various systems of life (political, social, etc.) through mere external arrangements, systems, ‘isms’ etc. the more it has failed. It seems however, that instead of learning from history, we tend to repeat the same mistakes again and again.</p>
			<p class="commentary">&#9;Indian culture clearly understood this fundamental truth from the beginning, which is why it tried to organize its various systems and institutions in alignment with the inner law of the being. By taking this deeper approach, we can begin to enter into the mysteries of this culture. It is not as if Indian culture was unaware of the necessity of political unification. But it did not wish to facilitate this unification by any artificial means, the result of which would have meant disrupting the self-rule and independence of kingdoms, tribes, and other units and institutions or, at least, suppressing the uniqueness of their native cultural and life specialties, as that would have been counter productive and against the spirit of the Indian Vedic Culture. That is why a power that could unite the nation without damaging the infinite diversity within it, was needed. The duties and ideals for such a power have, previously, been elaborated comprehensibly in the words of Sri Aurobindo. If we read history in the light of this exposition, the whole scenario changes. Along with his other duties, a king was expected to expand his kingdom and become an emperor. But he could expand his kingdom only according to Dharma (righteously), not in a barbaric or cruel manner. It is for this reason that if we study the wars in ancient Indian history, we find that the ordinary life of the people remained largely unaffected by them because primarily, wars were only fought between armies and, the vanquished ruler – and if he was killed in battle, his heirs or minister or some other capable person – was put back on the throne after acknowledging the suzerainty of the victor. In certain cases, if the king acknowledged the suzerainty of the attacking emperor, there was no battle and he could continue his rule as before. The atrocities of war were reduced to the minimum in the Indian scenario, as we learn from a study of our long history, because war was not fought mostly to loot or plunder a country as was done by the foreign invaders and looters. If one glances at our history with a clear view it is indubitably demonstrated that this culture established such standards in polity too that, by effecting them, it could achieve superlatively by mitigating, considerably, the evil effects of war and mutual strife.</p>
			<p class="commentary">If political incompetence is presumed by the fact that the borders could not be defended against foreign invasions because of a lack of political unification, then Sri Aurobindo has already explained that this was the result not of any kind of incompetence, but the considered choice of the custodians of this culture when they risked everything to keep the soul of the nation intact. We can get a comprehensive perspective if the background to this choice made by the Rishis is studied in the light of Sri Aurobindo. If we look behind the surface of the physical evolution, we find that while externally Nature creates more and more complex forms, a hidden inner evolution is also happening. It is as if the Spirit, through this process, is descending into successively lower and more external parts of humankind to try to invigorate and transform these parts so as to express itself in them. This can eventually lead to the establishment of the Divine Life in this material world – the goal of the terrestrial evolution. But when the light of the Spirit reaches the level of the physical nature and Matter, it has to face a tremendous resistance and it can no longer work as freely as it does on its own plane and to a large extent, on the higher planes. We can say that it is more or less buried under the rigidity of matter. In this condition, the egoistic forces grow more prominent and the organization of harmony becomes more difficult. The attempt to create an external unification without the basis of a true inner oneness is doomed to fail and is against the wisdom of a culture like the Indian, which lives more in its depths than the surfaces. Indeed, as Sri Aurobindo and the Mother have said, India is a divinely chosen country which possesses a spiritual truth, an eternal light and has been given the mission of spreading it throughout the world. It is, therefore her Divine work to lead and direct the whole of mankind towards the true goal. That is why India does not live for itself but for all mankind. It is impossible for us to fully appreciate the faithfulness to the Divine work displayed by the wisdom of this culture, not only for its own survival but for that of the whole of humankind, especially when it eschewed political unification to preserve its spiritual and cultural oneness. For the true existence of a culture is its cultural and spiritual originality without which it is dead in the true sense even if some external signs remain. So if we judge its choice even on the basis of the results, we see that where other cultures live only in the pages of history, Indian culture is not only alive but with the advent of Sri Aurobindo has been able to articulate the voice of her spirit and breathe into it a new energy so that it gets moving consciously once more, towards its chosen goal. ‡</p>
			<hr class="HorizontalRule-1" />
			<div class="_idFootnotes">
				<div id="footnote-016" class="_idFootnote" epub:type="footnote">
					<p class="Footnote"><a class="_idFootnoteAnchor _idGenColorInherit" href="BharatiyaSamskritiEnglishCommentary-50.xhtml#footnote-016-backlink">[2]</a>&#9;‡ This period is actually about two millenniums. In Indian history, the invasion by Alexander has been placed in the time of Chandragupta Maurya instead of the time of Chandra Gupta, and consequently a long period of Indian history has been omitted by western historians and their apologist Indians. These people place the Mahabharata a mere thousand years before Christ. ‡</p>
				</div>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
