<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>BharatiyaSamskritiEnglishCommentary-35</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="BharatiyaSamskritiEnglishCommentary-35" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h3 id="_idParaDest-55" class="Subhead2">B. <a id="_idIndexMarker353"></a>Stupendous Vitality</h3>
			<p class="Body-Text">“For three thousand years at least, – it is indeed much longer, – she has been creating abundantly and incessantly, lavishly, with an inexhaustible many-sidedness, republics and kingdoms and empires, philosophies and cosmogonies and sciences and creeds and arts and poems and all kinds of monuments, palaces and temples and public works, communities and societies and religious orders, laws and codes and rituals, physical sciences, psychic sciences, systems of Yoga, systems of politics and administration, arts spiritual, arts worldly, trades, industries, fine crafts, – the list is endless and in each item there is almost a plethora of activity. She creates and creates and is not satisfied and is not tired; she will not have an end of it, seems hardly to need a space for rest, a time for inertia and lying fallow. She expands too outside her borders; her ships cross the ocean and the fine superfluity of her wealth brims over to Judaea and Egypt and Rome; her colonies spread her arts and epics and creeds in the Archipelago; her traces are found in the sands of Mesopotamia; her religions conquer China and Japan and spread westward as far as Palestine and Alexandria, and the figures of the Upanishads and the sayings of the Buddhists are reechoed on the lips of Christ. Everywhere, as on her soil, so in her works there is the teeming of a superabundant energy of life. European critics complain that in her ancient architecture, sculpture and art there is no reticence, no holding back of riches, no blank spaces, that she labours to fill every rift with ore, occupy every inch with plenty. Well, but defect or no, that is the necessity of her superabundance of life, of the teeming of the infinite within her. She lavishes her riches because she must, as the Infinite fills every inch of space with the stirring of life and energy because it is the Infinite.”5</p>
			<p class="commentary">‡ We need to reflect on some points here with the right perception. The true spirit of Indian spirituality has always been the all-embracing integral Vedic spirit which recognises the just claim of all the parts of our being and tries to give them their due chance of fulfilment. The available record unquestionably establishes the prolific creativeness and the great achievements of Indian culture and we can see how spirituality in no way discourages the vital force in man, on the contrary, it greatly sublimates, purifies and intensifies its working. It is this that enabled the Indian culture to have such great achievements in the past which, today, seem almost impossible or superhuman for the ordinary human capacity. But the vital force, being the most dynamic and energetic part of our being, can truly be handled and regulated only by a spiritual force. Such is the despotic nature of the vital that certain schools of later spirituality consider it a great obstacle in any serious spiritual pursuit, an unruly and completely incorrigible part of our being. Therefore, their whole effort has been either to rigorously quell this life force or at least to starve it by depriving it of its fulfilment or satisfaction. Apart from a few, for whom it may be the only possible remedy, rarely does this coercion engender happy results for the majority, as it discourages the completeness of the divine expression and the joy that that expression brings with it.</p>
			<p class="commentary">Now the question is, what was the secret of that stupendous vitality of Indian culture, and what exactly do we think we may derive from this discussion that can be of relevance for us today? To begin with, there is a great difference between the spiritual and the purely material outlook of life which alters our whole normal view of things; even in pursuing the aims of human life, it gives them a different sense and direction. An upward transference of our centre of being brings about the consequent transformation of our whole existence and consciousness and along with it a resultant change in the whole spirit and motive of our action, even though the action may remain precisely the same in all its outward appearances. To one who has some sense of the deeper working of things, it should be evident how the nature of even the most ordinary work changes the moment one does it not merely to earn one’s livelihood, or under some compulsion or for the fulfilment of some superficial motive, but out of love or as an expression of some deep emotion or feeling of one’s heart, to whomsoever or whatsoever it may be directed. For a sense-bound mentality, which takes the outer instrumental being of man for his real self, the entire motive of its action is the gratification of the outer self. When done solely with such an outlook or motive, work loses for the most part, if not completely, its true utility, force and enthusiasm and increasingly takes on the nature of some kind of obligation, punishment or something that needs to be compensated by way of some kind of a pay off for the physical and vital being. It is hardly possible that the past achievements of Indian culture were accomplished by such people whose sole motive of work was to somehow ensure their material well-being. It is when the spirit of self-perfection or deeper fulfilment becomes the sole, or at least the main, driving force of action that any disutility of work disappears and it gets its true significance and justification. Any true creation can take place only when the joy of creation becomes the main motive force of action. Thus, a spiritual view regards life as a field for higher and higher ascension toward one’s true self, and work, in this view, is a powerful means of that ascension, and also, of the expression of that joy that this ascension and self-realisation bring with it. This is the secret of the stupendous vitality of this culture. In such a consciousness where work is a means of ascension and a source of joy, one could not help but be driven to constantly engage oneself in work, and that too in an intense way which leads to perfection in works. ‡</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
