<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>BharatiyaSamskritiEnglishCommentary-15</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="BharatiyaSamskritiEnglishCommentary-15" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-24" class="Subhead1">IV. The Greatest Accomplishment of Indian Culture – the Web of the <a id="_idIndexMarker254"></a>Sanatana Dharma</h2>
			<p class="Body-Text">The above was the description of the framework of Indian culture from the outlook of an intellectual criticism because that is the standpoint of the critics who try to disparage its value. It has been shown above that, “...Indian culture must be adjudged even from this alien outlook to have been the creation of a wide and noble spirit. Inspired in the heart of its being by a lofty principle, illumined with a striking and uplifting idea of individual manhood and its powers and its possible perfection, aligned to a spacious plan of social architecture, it was enriched not only by a strong philosophic, intellectual and artistic creativeness but by a great and vivifying and fruitful life-power. But this by itself does not give an adequate account of its spirit or its greatness. One might describe Greek or Roman civilisation from this outlook and miss little that was of importance; but <a id="_idIndexMarker255"></a>Indian civilisation was not only a great cultural system, but an immense religious effort of the human spirit.”39</p>
			<p class="commentary">‡ A deeper contemplation of this apparently simple and straightforward passage makes evident the infinite number of profound suggestions and meanings with which it is pregnant. To begin with, it is indeed curious to note that even after having said so much about the greatness of the Indian culture Sri Aurobindo here says that ‘this by itself does not give an adequate account of its spirit or its greatness’, what then could it be that still needs to be brought to light? Also, if, unlike Greek and Roman culture, the greatness of the Indian culture consisted not only in its ‘strong philosophic, intellectual and artistic creativeness and its great and vivifying and fruitful life-power’, but even more, in its being an immense religious effort of the human spirit, what then is the difference between a great cultural system and an immense religious effort of the human spirit? But we must bear in mind that all this comparison is in no way an attempt to equate the greatness of Indian culture to that of any other culture, for as has been discussed time and again, it has been established by Sri Aurobindo how in all possible fields of human thought and endeavour the achievements of this culture have been incomparably greater – both quantitatively and qualitatively – than any of the other known cultures, and even what it had in common with other cultures got from its spiritual turn a stamp of striking originality and solitary greatness. The point that needs to be emphasised here is that more than any of its other cultural achievements, the true peculiarity of the Indian culture lay in its structure of the Sanatana Dharma. It is therefore of primary importance to at least get some sense of the immense religious effort of this culture, the true role of religion, the relation between spirituality and religion, and the peculiarity of the Sanatana Dharma that makes it stand out as the most remarkable of all religious systems. As pointed out by Sri Aurobindo, the description of the fundamental aspects and motives of the Indian culture so far has been made as a response to intellectual criticism and to assert the greatness of this culture even from that outlook by refuting all misconceptions, hostile and adverse opinions and other disparagements. But the coming discussion will move more towards entering into and revealing the heart of this culture. Talking about the blessed land of India, Swami <a id="_idIndexMarker256"></a>Vivekananda said, “If there is any land on this earth that can lay claim to be the blessed <a id="_idIndexMarker257"></a>Punya Bhumi, to be the land to which all souls on this earth must come to account for Karma, the land to which every soul that is wending its way Godward must come to attain its last home, the land where humanity has attained its highest towards gentleness, towards generosity, towards purity, towards calmness, above all, the land of introspection and of spirituality — it is India. Hence have started the founders of religions from the most ancient times, deluging the earth again and again with the pure and perennial waters of spiritual truth. Hence have proceeded the tidal waves of philosophy that have covered the earth, East or West, North or South, and hence again must start the wave which is going to spiritualise the material civilisation of the world. Here is the life-giving water with which must be quenched the burning fire of materialism which is burning the core of the hearts of millions in other lands. Believe me, my friends, this is going to be.” (CWSV 3: 104-05) </p>
			<p class="commentary">Indian philosophy is founded on deep spiritual intuition and spiritual revelation, and Indian religion is, essentially, Indian spiritual philosophy put into action and experience. The keynote of that philosophy is this mighty ever-memorable formula, ‘<a id="_idIndexMarker258"></a>Aham Brahmasmi, Tattvamasi, sarvam khalu idam Brahma’, which means ‘I am Brahman, Thou are Brahman, Verily, all that there is is Brahman’. Not only all that there is in this phenomenal universe is Brahman, but even all that is not there or even beyond this manifestation, that too is Brahman alone. The being of the Brahman is so Absolute that It cannot in its essentiality be limited to even the highest of the human conceptions and surpasses all the various autonomies – of Being and Non-being, Personality or Impersonality, and various others – attributed to It by the human mind. But a thing of yet greater significance lies in this fundamental realisation that in one’s own true being one is none other than That All-Pervading Transcendent Brahman, or rather say, Brahman is one’s very own true self. Furthermore, even all that appears to be other than one’s individual self – a perception resulting from a sense of separate individual personality in this terrestrial manifestation – that too is verily Brahman. When religion tries to put into practice such a sublime spiritual revelation, the thing of primary concern for it is to try to see, recognise and establish contact with that Omnipresent Brahman in each thing, every movement, each and every part of our being. The least little thing, or act or form – even when apparently a complete negation of the Divine – in which one fails to see and accept the Divine is as though one were missing the opportunity of establishing contact with the Divine to that extent. The Puranas and other ancient Indian literature has always insisted upon growing conscious of and turning towards the Divine manifested in this whole universe. The Bhagavat puts it beautifully, “that you must turn all your senses Godward: words must be used to sing His praises; eyes directed to the saints in whom He presides; the ears dedicated to hear them; hands taught to worship His feet and, lastly, your head must bow down in reverence to the world throbbing with His conscious&#173;ness; that is called <a id="_idIndexMarker259"></a>jagat-pranam.” (Bhagavat 10.10.38) Even an authoritative scripture like the Gita reiterates the very same truth in the Yoga of Vibhuti that verily, all that there is is the Divine Himself and there can be nothing other than Him, but he is especially apparent to us in whatever is of a pre-eminent value or seems to act with a powerful and pre-eminent force. It is for this reason that a special significance has always been given to the person or the thing in or through which the Divine has chosen to reveal Himself most effectively. But as revealed by the Lord Himself in the Gita, this phenomenon of Vibhuti or the special manifestation of the Divine is not confined to Gods or human beings only, but can be found in the Titans, demons and animals, even in all the elements in nature, in human qualities, in each and every movement of human psychology, in fact, in all that there is in this manifestation. Once having recognised the presence of the Divine in each and everything, the work of religion then is to help in establishing a contact and relation with that Divine in all the parts of our being. However seemingly high, sublime and distant this aim may be, still one has to start moving towards it from whatever one’s immediate position.</p>
			<p class="commentary">As has been incidentally discussed earlier also, an individual being is a sum of infinite complexity – such as, various parts of the being, various levels of consciousness, different stages of inner and outer development, various traits of subjective nature, and so on, – therefore, in its pursuit of bringing the whole being into contact with the Divine, religion must take into account this infinite complexity, the sum of which not only varies from person to person but even in one person the balance changes from time to time. Also, as compared to the higher parts it is way too difficult to bring the lower recalcitrant members, the mechanical and hedonistic parts of our being into light and turn them towards the Divine. But even their claim was not ignored but given its due importance. For it was understood that they too had a deeper truth of their own and only by finding that truth, by realising the Divine in their own manner, can they attain their true fulfilment. Therefore, the whole effort of the Tantra, the Vaishnava religion, and numerous other systems in this culture, has been to somehow bring the entire being of man, all his subjective and objective movements, each and every stage of his inner and outer development into contact with the Divine and unite with him. It was with this end in view that the whole atmosphere of the society was so surrounded by a mass of suggestive ceremonies, effective rituals, strict outward rules and injunctions, and other such symbols that would at each step remind a person of and help him to come into contact with the Divine presence behind all that there is in, or even beyond, this terrestrial manifestation. ‡</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
