<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>BharatiyaSamskritiEnglishCommentary-36</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="BharatiyaSamskritiEnglishCommentary-36" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h3 id="_idParaDest-56" class="Subhead2">C. <a id="_idIndexMarker354"></a>Strong Intellectuality</h3>
			<p class="Body-Text">“But this supreme spirituality and this prolific abundance of the energy and joy of life and creation do not make all that the spirit of India has been in its past. It is not a confused splendour of tropical vegetation under heavens of a pure sapphire infinity. It is only to eyes unaccustomed to such wealth that there seems to be a confusion in this crowding of space with rich forms of life, a luxurious disorder of excess or a wanton lack of measure, clear balance and design. For the third power of the ancient Indian spirit was a strong intellectuality, at once austere and rich, robust and minute, powerful and delicate, massive in principle and curious in detail. Its chief impulse was that of order and arrangement, but an order founded upon a seeking for the inner law and truth of things and having in view always the possibility of conscientious practice. India has been preeminently the land of the Dharma and the Shastra. She searched for the inner truth and law of each human or cosmic activity, its dharma; that found, she laboured to cast into elaborate form and detailed law of arrangement its application in fact and rule of life. Her first period was luminous with the discovery of the Spirit; her second completed the discovery of the Dharma; her third elaborated into detail the first simpler formulation of the Shastra; but none was exclusive, the three elements are always present. </p>
			<p class="Body-Text">In this third period the curious elaboration of all life into a science and an art assumes extraordinary proportions. The mere mass of the intellectual production during the period from Asoka well into the Mahomedan epoch is something truly prodigious, as can be seen at once if one studies the account which recent scholarship gives of it, and we must remember that that scholarship as yet only deals with a fraction of what is still lying extant and what is extant is only a small percentage of what was once written and known. There is no historical parallel for such an intellectual labour and activity before the invention of printing and the facilities of modern science; yet all that mass of research and production and curiosity of detail was accomplished without these facilities and with no better record than the memory and for an aid the perishable palm-leaf. Nor was all this colossal literature confined to philosophy and theology, religion and Yoga, logic and rhetoric and grammar and linguistics, poetry and drama, medicine and astronomy and the sciences; it embraced all life, politics and society, all the arts from painting to dancing, all the sixty-four accomplishments, everything then known that could be useful to life or interesting to the mind, even, for instance, to such practical side minutiae as the breeding and training of horses and elephants, each of which had its Shastra and its art, its apparatus of technical terms, its copious literature. In each subject from the largest and most momentous to the smallest and most trivial there was expended the same all-embracing, opulent, minute and thorough intellectuality. On one side there is an insatiable curiosity, the desire of life to know itself in every detail, on the other a spirit of organisation and scrupulous order, the desire of the mind to tread through life with a harmonised knowledge and in the right rhythm and measure. Thus an ingrained and dominant spirituality, an inexhaustible vital creativeness and gust of life and, mediating between them, a powerful, penetrating and scrupulous intelligence combined of the rational, ethical and aesthetic mind each at a high intensity of action, created the harmony of the ancient Indian culture. </p>
			<p class="Body-Text">Indeed without this opulent vitality and opulent intellectuality India could never have done so much as she did with her spiritual tendencies. It is a great error to suppose that spirituality flourishes best in an impoverished soil with the life half-killed and the intellect discouraged and intimidated. The spirituality that so flourishes is something morbid, hectic and exposed to perilous reactions. It is when the race has lived most richly and thought most profoundly that spirituality finds its heights and its depths and its constant and many-sided fruition. In modern Europe it is after a long explosion of vital force and a stupendous activity of the intellect that spirituality has begun really to emerge and with some promise of being not, as it once was, the sorrowful physician of the malady of life, but the beginning of a large and profound clarity.”6</p>
			<p class="commentary">‡ It is the power of strong intellectuality of the ancient Indian spirit that provided a firm basis for its stupendous vitality and prolific abundance of energy. But this intellectuality should not be confused with that materialistic analytical reasoning that takes the physical world and its appearances for the sole truth and due to the falsity of its approach inevitably arrives at false findings and conclusions. The intellectual power of the ancient Indian spirit was an enlightened intelligence informed with deeper inspiration, intuition and discrimination that could, while remaining completely unaffected by the surface considerations or appearances, not only look at a thing in its entirety but even penetrate and know its truth in the minutest details. The vital being in us is the seat of impulses and <a id="_idIndexMarker355"></a>desires, of enthusiasm and violence, of dynamic energy, and if left unbridled can play havoc, and therefore, always needs higher guidance for its right functioning. The peculiarity of this culture lay in its phenomenal synthesis of the intellect and vitality guided by its deep spiritual intuition. On the one hand, it laid down detailed Shastras not only for the more profound aspects but even for the most mundane things of life to enable man to act with the security of right knowledge, and on the other hand, gave room for the potent and dynamic expression of that knowledge in life. </p>
			<p class="commentary">One more thing that must always be kept in mind is that the means of investigation or exploration must answer to the nature of the plane with which one is dealing. For example, the means proper for physical investigation are quite out of place in dealing with the vital and the mental planes, and the ones proper for these, are completely out of place in dealing with more involved psychological and spiritual states. Given the heights, depths and subtleties of the fields that this culture set itself to explore, it could ill-afford to rely on means ill-fit for the task. This explains the indispensability of a strong intellectuality that was ‘at once austere and rich, robust and minute, powerful and delicate, massive in principle and curious in detail’ and which, while remaining unaffected by the outer appearances — and even more, by the fixed habits, outlooks and prejudices of the mind, vital and physical, that in some way or the other affect or colour everything — had the power to go straight to the issue and look into its core. Besides, all the various attributes ascribed by Sri Aurobindo to the ancient Indian intellectuality, such as ‘austere and rich, robust and minute, powerful and delicate’, are in no way mutually inconsistent or contradictory, but rather complementary and each is inherent in the integral working of the other. For, an intellect incapable of an austere enquiry cannot be rich, and one that misses or is oblivious of details cannot be massive in principle. It is characteristic of the strong intellectuality of this culture that it has ventured, on the one hand, into the most profound metaphysical speculations and spiritual antinomies, and on the other, has engaged itself in the deep study and analysis of all the aspects of the world, human existence, thought and action, and yet has placed all these in a perfect harmony.‡</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
