<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>BharatiyaSamskritiEnglishCommentary-14</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="BharatiyaSamskritiEnglishCommentary-14" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h3 id="_idParaDest-21" class="Subhead2">C. The Power of the Forms, Types and Rhythms That the Indian Culture Has Given to Life</h3>
			<p class="Body-Text">In any culture aiming at completeness there must be “...not only great and noble governing and inspiring ideas, but a harmony of forms and rhythms, a mould into which the ideas and the life can run and settle. Here we must be prepared for a lesser perfection, a greater incompleteness. And the reason is that just as the spirit is vaster than its ideas, the ideas too are larger than their forms, moulds and rhythms. Form has a certain fixity which limits; no form can exhaust or fully express the potentialities of the idea or force that gave it birth. Neither can any idea, however great, or any limited play of force or form bind the infinite spirit: that is the secret of earth’s need of mutation and progress. The idea is only a partial expression of the spirit. Even within its own limits, on its own lines it ought always to become more supple, to fill itself out with other views, to rise and broaden to new applications, and often it has to lose itself in uplifting transformations of its own meaning into vaster significances or fuse itself into new and richer syntheses.”33</p>
			<h4 id="_idParaDest-22" class="Subhead3">(i) The Three Stages or Periods in the History of the <a id="_idIndexMarker236"></a>Indian Culture</h4>
			<p class="Body-Text">“In the history of all great cultures therefore we find a passage through three periods, for this passage is a necessary consequence of this truth of things. There is a first period of large and loose formation; there is a second period in which we see a fixing of forms, moulds and rhythms; and there is a closing or a critical period of superannuation, decay and disintegration. This last stage is the supreme crisis in the life of a civilisation; if it cannot transform itself, it enters into a slow lingering decline or else collapses in a death agony brought about by the rapid impact of stronger and more immediately living though not necessarily greater or truer powers or formations. But if it is able to shake itself free of limiting forms, to renovate its ideas and to give a new scope to its spirit, if it is willing to understand, master and assimilate novel growths and necessities, then there is a rebirth, a fresh lease of life and expansion, a true renascence.</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">Indian civilisation passed in its own large and leisurely manner through all these stages. Its first period was that of a great spiritual out-flowering in which the forms were supple, flexible and freely responsive to its essential spirit. That fluid movement passed away into an age of strong intellectuality in which all was fixed into distinct, sufficiently complex, but largely treated and still supple forms and rhythms. There came as a consequence a period of richly crystallised fixity shaken by crises which were partly met by a change of ideas and a modification of forms. But the hard binding of set forms triumphed at last and there was a decline of the inspiring spirit, a stagnation of living force, a progressive decay of the outward structure. This decay was accompanied and at once arrested for a moment and hastened in the end by the impact of other cultures. Today we are in the midst of a violent and decisive crisis brought about by the inflooding of the West and of all for which it stands. An upheaval resulted that began with the threat of a total death and irretrievable destruction of the culture; but its course is now uplifted on the contrary by the strong hope of a great revival, transmutation and renascence. Each of these three stages has its special significance for the student of culture. If we would understand the essential spirit of Indian civilisation, we must go back to its first formative period, the early epoch of the Veda and the Upanishads, its heroic creative seed-time. If we would study the fixed forms of its spirit and discern the thing it eventually realised as the basic rhythm of its life, we must look with an observing eye at the later middle period of the Shastras and the classic writings, the age of philosophy and science, legislation and political and social theory and many-sided critical thought, religious fixation, art, sculpture, painting, architecture. If we would discover the limitations, the points at which it stopped short and failed to develop its whole or its true spirit, we must observe closely the unhappy disclosures of its period of decline. If, finally, we would discover the directions it is likely to follow in its transformation, we must try to fathom what lies beneath the still confused movements of its crisis of renascence. None of these can indeed be cut clean apart from each other; for what developed in one period is already forecast and begun in the preceding age: but still on a certain large and imprecise scale we can make these distinctions and they are necessary for a discerning analytic view. But at present we are only concerned with the developed forms and the principal rhythms which persisted through its greater eras.”34</p>
			<h4 id="_idParaDest-23" class="Subhead3">(ii) The Firm Outward Basis for the Founding of the Practical Development of the Spirit of Indian Culture and Its Idea in Life – The <a id="_idIndexMarker237"></a>Fourfold <a id="_idIndexMarker238"></a>Varnasram System</h4>
			<p class="Body-Text">“The problem which Indian culture had to solve was that of a firm outward basis on which to found the practical development of its spirit and its idea in life. How are we to take the natural life of man and, while allowing it sufficient scope and variety and freedom, yet to subject it to a law, canon, dharma, a law of function, a law of type, a law of each actual unideal human tendency and a law too of highest ideal intention? And how again are we to point that dharma towards its own exceeding by the fulfilment and cessation of its disciplinary purpose in the secure freedom of the spiritual life? Indian culture from an early stage seized upon a double idea for its own guidance which it threw into a basic system of the individual life in the social frame. This was the double system of the four Varnas and the four Asramas, – four graded classes of society and four successive stages of a developing human life.”35</p>
			<h5 class="Subhead4">(a) The <a id="_idIndexMarker239"></a>Chaturvarnya System</h5>
			<p class="Body-Text">“The ancient Chaturvarnya must not be judged by its later disintegrated degeneration and gross meaningless parody, the caste system. But neither was it precisely the system of the classes which we find in other civilisations, priesthood, nobility, merchant class and serfs or labourers. It may have had outwardly the same starting-point, but it was given a very different revealing significance. The ancient Indian idea was that man falls by his nature into four types. There are, first and highest, the man of learning and thought and knowledge; next, the man of power and action, ruler, warrior, leader, administrator; third in the scale, the economic man, producer and wealth-getter, the merchant, artisan, cultivator: these were the twice-born, who received the initiation, Brahmin, Kshatriya, Vaishya. Last came the more undeveloped human type, not yet fit for these steps of the scale, unintellectual, without force, incapable of creation or intelligent production, the man fit only for unskilled labour and menial service, the Shudra. The economic order of society was cast in the form and gradation of these four types. The Brahmin class was called upon to give the community its priests, thinkers, men of letters, legists, scholars, religious leaders and guides. The Kshatriya class gave it its kings, warriors, governors and administrators. The Vaishya order supplied it with its producers, agriculturists, craftsmen, artisans, merchants and traders. The Shudra class ministered to its need of menials and servants. As far as this went, there was nothing peculiar in the system except its extraordinary durability and, perhaps, the supreme position given to religion, thought and learning, not only at the top of the scale, – for that can be paralleled from one or two other civilisations, – but as the dominant power. The Indian idea in its purity fixed the status of a man in this order not by his birth, but by his capacities and his inner nature, and, if this rule had been strictly observed, that would have been a very clear mark of distinctness, a superiority of a unique kind. But even the best society is always something of a machine and gravitates towards the material sign and standard, and to found truly the social order upon this finer psychological basis would have been in those times a difficult and vain endeavour. In practice we find that birth became the basis of the Varna. It is elsewhere that we must look for the strong distinguishing mark which has made of this social structure a thing apart and sole in its type.</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">At no time indeed was the adherence to the economic rule quite absolute. The early ages show a considerable flexibility which was not quite lost in the process of complex crystallisation into a fixed form. And even in the greater rigidity of the latter-day caste system there has been in practice a confusion of economic functions. The vitality of a vigorous community cannot obey at every point the indications of a pattern and tradition cut by the mechanising mind. Moreover there was always a difference between the ideal theory of the system and its rougher unideal practice. For the material side of an idea or system has always its weaknesses even in its best times, and the final defect of all systems of this kind is that they stiffen into a fixed hierarchy which cannot maintain permanently its purity or the utility it was meant to serve. It becomes a soulless form and prolongs itself in a state of corruption, degeneracy or oppressive formalism when the uses that justified it are no longer in existence. Even when its ways can no longer be made consistent with the developing needs of the growth of humanity, the formal system persists and corrupts the truth of life and blocks progress. Indian society did not escape this general law; it was overtaken by these deficiencies, lost the true sense of the thing which it set out to embody and degenerated into a chaos of castes, developing evils which we are now much embarrassed to eliminate. But it was a well-devised and necessary scheme in its time; it gave the community the firm and nobly built stability it needed for the security of its cultural development, – a stability hardly paralleled in any other culture. And, as interpreted by the Indian genius, it became a greater thing than a mere outward economic, political and social mechanism intended to serve the needs and convenience of the collective life.</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">For the real greatness of the Indian system of the four varnas did not lie in its well-ordered division of economic function; its true originality and permanent value was in the ethical and spiritual content which the thinkers and builders of the society poured into these forms. This inner content started with the idea that the intellectual, ethical and spiritual growth of the individual is the central need of the race. Society itself is only the necessary framework for this growth; it is a system of relations which provides it with its needed medium, field and conditions and with a nexus of helpful influences. A secure place had to be found in the community for the individual man from which he could at once serve these relations, helping to maintain the society and pay it his debt of duty and assistance, and proceed to his own self-development with the best possible aid from the communal life. Birth was accepted in practice as the first gross and natural indicator; for heredity to the Indian mind has always ranked as a factor of the highest importance: it was even taken in later thought as a sign of the nature and as an index to the surroundings which the individual had prepared for himself by his past soul-development in former existences. But birth is not and cannot be the sole test of Varna. The intellectual capacity of the man, the turn of his temperament, his ethical nature, his spiritual stature, these are the important factors. There was erected therefore a rule of family living, a system of individual observance and self-training, a force of upbringing and education which would bring out and formulate these essential things. The individual man was carefully trained in the capacities, habits and attainments, and habituated to the sense of honour and duty necessary for the discharge of his allotted function in life. He was scrupulously equipped with the science of the thing he had to do, the best way to succeed in it as an interest, artha, and to attain to the highest rule, canon and recognised perfection of its activities, economic, political, sacerdotal, literary, scholastic or whatever else they might be. Even the most despised pursuits had their education, their law and canon, their ambition of success, their sense of honour in the discharge and scruple of well-doing, their dignity of a fixed standard of perfection, and it was because they had these things that even the lowest and least attractive could be in a certain degree a means of self-finding and ordered self-satisfaction. In addition to this special function and training there were the general accomplishments, sciences, arts, graces of life, those which satisfy the intellectual, aesthetic and hedonistic powers of human nature. These in ancient India were many and various, were taught with minuteness, thoroughness and subtlety and were available to all men of culture. </p>
			<p class="Body-Text">But while there was provision for all these things and it was made with a vivid liberality of the life-spirit and a noble sense of order, the spirit of Indian culture did not, like other ancient cultures, stop here.”36</p>
			<h5 class="Subhead4">(b) The Chaturvarnya Only a Substructure for the Higher Object to be Served by It</h5>
			<p class="Body-Text">“It said to the individual: ‘This is only the substructure; it is of a pressing importance indeed, but still not the last and greatest thing. When you have paid your debt to society, filled well and admirably your place in its life, helped its maintenance and continuity and taken from it your legitimate and desired satisfactions, there still remains the greatest thing of all. There is still your own self, the inner you, the soul which is a spiritual portion of the Infinite, one in its essence with the Eternal. This self, this soul in you you have to find, you are here for that, and it is from the place I have provided for you in life and by this training that you can begin to find it. For to each Varna I have supplied its highest ideal of manhood, the highest ideal way of which your nature is capable. By directing your life and nature in its own law of being towards that perfection, you can not only grow towards the ideal and enter into harmony with universal nature but come also into nearness and contact with a greater nature of divinity and move towards transcendence. That is the real object before you. From the life-basis I give you you can rise to the liberating knowledge which brings a spiritual release, mokṣa. Then you can grow out of all these limitations in which you are being trained; you can grow through the fulfilled Dharma and beyond it into the eternity of your self, into the fullness, freedom, greatness and bliss of the immortal spirit; for that is what each man is behind the veils of his nature. When you have done that you are free. Then you have gone beyond all the dharmas; you are then a universal soul, one with all existence, and you can either act in that divine liberty for the good of all living things or else turn to enjoy in solitude the bliss of eternity and transcendence.’ ”37</p>
			<p class="commentary">‡ Qs. What after all is the Chaturvarnya system and what is the fundamental rationale behind it? How did the four Varnas come into existence?</p>
			<p class="commentary">Ans. This entire creation is nothing but the manifestation of the Divine Transcendent Mother. She has infinite attributes and powers, but only four of her great Aspects, four of her leading Powers and Personalities – <a id="_idIndexMarker240"></a>Maheshwari, Mahakali, Mahalakshmi and Mahasaraswati – have stood in front in her guidance of this universe and in her dealings with the terrestrial play. It is these aspects that we find being alluded to at various places in the old Indian literature as the fourfold presence of the Divine. Each individual soul or Jiva possesses in his spiritual nature the action of all these four aspects but in action and expressive spirit one or the other aspect predominates and constitutes the inherent nature, Swabhava, of the individual.</p>
			<p class="commentary">Therefore, the central motive of this culture has been to make an individual soul grow conscious of this inherent nature, so that instead of being mechanically driven by the surface nature, it may increasingly express the inner nature in its life. The outer acts should be such as to facilitate an increasing expression of the inner Swabhava. Without taking into account his inner nature, if a person was asked to engage in a work inconsistent with his nature, not only would he not be able to truly perform it but, if pressed beyond a point, it may even have undesirable consequences on the inner psychology of the person. This is why in this culture great stress has always been laid on performing ‘<a id="_idIndexMarker241"></a>swabhava niyata karma’, that is, carrying out action evolved from within, in harmony with the truth of one’s being, regulated by one’s self-nature. Corresponding to the inner-nature, four broad divisions of human nature were made each with its characteristic function and ideal rule of work. The first came the <a id="_idIndexMarker242"></a>Brahmin, the man with a turn for knowledge, who brings thought, reflection, the seeking for truth and an intelligent or at the highest a spiritual rule into life and illumines by it his conception and mode of existence. Next came the <a id="_idIndexMarker243"></a>Kshatriya, the man with the predominance of the aspect of power. Not self-pleasing and domestic happiness and a life of comfort and peaceful joy with friends and relatives, but to battle for the right, to protect justice, was his true object of life and to find a cause for which he could lay down his life or by victory win the crown and glory of the hero’s existence was his greatest happiness. Thirdly came the <a id="_idIndexMarker244"></a>Vaishya, with the predominance of the action of Mahalakshmi in his nature. He had a sense of proportion, of order, of harmony between things and their interrelationships, and also a skill in arrangement and management. His nature is endowed with dexterity and skill in arranging the means, the equipment, the action so as to produce the greatest results possible. It is this power of Mahalakshmi that gives the sense of the right law, proper order or arrangement of any given work or thing, say, of how to efficiently run a business, or go about farming, or cooking, or carrying out any other work. Lastly, the <a id="_idIndexMarker245"></a>Shudra, is the man with the action of Mahasaraswati power prominent in his nature endowed with the capacity of self-giving, service and detailed perfection in work. All dexterity in hands is a reflection of the working of this power. One must keep in mind that any complete and perfect action involves the working of all these four powers, although the degree of the actual involvement and predominance of any one or more of these powers depends on the nature of the work at hand. Maheshwari is the eldest of them all, for it is her province to give a true sense of the right direction to advance and lay large lines for any given undertaking, without which no endeavour can truly commence. Then comes the action of Mahakali, to supply with the necessary power and energy for the execution of those large lines. But for the power and energy to be truly effective requires skill in the use of means and methods and their proper disposition in order to secure the end and also the knowledge of what is or is not possible to be gained by a particular means or method or a particular expense, this is the work of Mahalakshmi. And finally, it is Mahasaraswati who supplies the capacity of detailed perfection in execution without which no perfect manifestation is possible. Thus, it is by the power of all four of these that a complete action is possible. Shedding light on these four types of personality, Sri Aurobindo says, “None of these four types of personality can be complete even in its own field if it does not bring into it something of the other qualities. The man of knowledge cannot serve Truth with freedom and perfection, if he has not intellectual and moral courage, will, audacity, the strength to open and conquer new kingdoms, otherwise he becomes a slave of the limited intellect or a servant or at most a ritual priest of only an established knowledge, – cannot use his knowledge to the best advantage unless he has the adaptive skill to work out its truths for the practice of life, otherwise he lives only in the idea, – cannot make the entire consecration of his knowledge unless he has the spirit of service to humanity, to the Godhead in man and the Master of his being. The man of power must illumine and uplift and govern his force and strength by knowledge, light of reason or religion or the spirit, otherwise he becomes the mere forceful Asura, – must have the skill which will help him best to use and administer and regulate his strength and make it creative and fruitful and adapted to his relations with others, otherwise it becomes a mere drive of force across the field of life, a storm that passes and devastates more than it constructs, – must be capable too of obedience and make the use of his strength a service to God and the world, otherwise he becomes a selfish dominator, tyrant, brutal compeller of men’s souls and bodies. The man of productive mind and work must have an open inquiring mind and ideas and knowledge, otherwise he moves in the routine of his functions without expansive growth, must have courage and enterprise, must bring a spirit of service into his getting and production, in order that he may not only get but give, not only amass and enjoy his own life, but consciously help the fruitfulness and fullness of the surrounding life by which he profits. The man of labour and service becomes a helpless drudge and slave of society if he does not bring knowledge and honour and aspiration and skill into his work, since only so can he rise by an opening mind and will and understanding usefulness to the higher dharmas. But the greater perfection of man comes when he enlarges himself to include all these powers, even though one of them may lead the others, and opens his nature more and more into the rounded fullness and universal capacity of the fourfold spirit. Man is not cut out into an exclusive type of one of these dharmas, but all these powers are in him at work at first in an ill-formed confusion, but he gives shape to one or another in birth after birth, progresses from one to the other even in the same life and goes on towards the total development of his inner existence.”(CWSA 24, 748-49)</p>
			<p class="commentary">Qs. How was the Swabhava, the inherent nature, the <a id="_idIndexMarker246"></a>Varna of a person determined in this Culture?</p>
			<p class="commentary">Ans. Without any deeper understanding and inner perception it is indeed not at all easy to determine the true nature of a person. Generally, the ordinary man lives upon his waking surface, ignorant of the self’s depths and vastnesses behind the veil. His surface outer nature, bound by the play of the three gunas, is nothing but a complex mass of mental, nervous and physical habits held together by a few ruling ideas, desires and associations where errors, perversions, falsehoods are so intertwined with the truth and light that he stumbles about in search of some sure footing. Although the Jiva, the soul inside is perfectly conscious of its swabhava, the surface nature, being completely ignorant of the self’s depths doesn’t share into this knowledge of the soul and has to pass through many vicissitudes and stumblings before it can have some glimpse of the depths inside. Even while supporting it, the inner nature remains undisturbed and unmoved by this lower working of the surface nature, and through these outer appearances, it keeps pointing and guiding towards the indwelling Divinity. As one awakes to that deeper presence inside, one increasingly grows aware of one’s true nature also. Among other indicators, birth was, in practice, one of the most important factors to determine the swabhava of a person, for it was based on this deeper truth that the individual soul chooses and prepares for itself the necessary outer surroundings for its self-expression. The intellectual capacity of the person, the turn of his temperament, his ethical nature, his spiritual stature are some of the other important factors that somewhat indicate the inherent nature. A keen observer can see how even in ordinary life these factors greatly influence and determine the outer acts of an individual. Also, one must not lose sight of the fact that the whole culture was surrounded by the living presence of spiritual masters and experienced teachers who by their deeper perception could, without having to depend much on the outer indicators, determine the true nature of a person and also guide and help him to move towards it. Earlier we have had a vivid discussion of how the most profound spiritual truths were brought to the door of even the lowest of the classes, of those who could never have the leisure and training to pursue these thoughts to their fountainhead. Indeed, it was this presence of spiritual masters throughout the country that animated this culture and each and every aspect of its life and guided it on the path of the soul.</p>
			<p class="commentary">Qs. If in their original purity the Varnas were based on and determined by the inner nature then how did birth come to be regarded as the indicator of Varna? Can even the qualities be transferred by <a id="_idIndexMarker247"></a>heredity?</p>
			<p class="commentary">Ans. It is too complex a subject to be reduced to some arbitrary generalisations. As far as the hereditary transference of qualities is concerned, this much at least, with certainty, can be said that even though the workings of our psychology are as yet ill-understood and we do not know precisely by what means or forces the subconscious operations of mentality are conducted, but physical heredity is certainly one of those processes used by the universal nature in her more secret works. This justifies the peculiar personality traits, types of mentality, and mental tendencies of different races and social orders. But most often it is some economic division or outer profession that is confused with the <a id="_idIndexMarker248"></a>Varna of a person, whereas the basis of the Varna is not superficial but spiritual. This fact becomes quite obvious when in Mahabharata and at other places in the ancient Indian literature we find not only certain individuals, but even an entire class of society engaging in the occupation or outer work prescribed for a different order. Though with time, due to intermarriage and other processes of amalgamation, the structure of the fourfold order could not retain its original purity, the law of different swabhavas of individuals was still recognised and effective. One must keep in mind that the Indian Chaturvarnya system was applicable to only an Aryan society where each individual strove to ascend, from whatever his immediate status, to a higher level of consciousness. In such a society, moved by the spiritual ideal, there could be no essential difference between a Brahmin and a Shudra, for it was well established that each one had some characteristic principle and inborn power of his nature and to act by the law of his being, the truth of his nature was the most effective means of expressing that truth and attaining spiritual liberation and perfection. Therefore, a Shudra aspiring to self-exceed would be regarded as superior even to a self-satisfied Brahmin. As regarding heredity, each class had its well-defined dharmas – its religious customs, its laws of honour, ethical rules, suitable education and training, family ideals and disciplines – which were duly binding on each and everyone in the class. The possible disparity between the hereditary function and the individual’s real inborn character and capacity was made up or minimised by education and training. For example, someone born in the Kshatriya order would be surrounded from his very childhood by the necessary education, training, injunction and discipline to get the most suitable conditions for and the best possible chances of growing in his Varna. Not only every Varna but even every outer profession and work had its own detailed and comprehensive dharmas so as to guide an individual at each step to act according to the ideal rules of conduct. But, even though binding, the application of this system was not arbitrary. In practice, it was flexible enough to leave enough room for one who had the supreme opportunity of being under the guidance of a spiritual master, or one who had received the inner call of one’s soul to follow after a deeper law. Also, the dharma of the Varna would prevail over that of the birth in cases with a clearly marked inner nature. Above all, the infallibility of such an intricate and highly evolved psychological and spiritual system, where there could be ordinarily little or no room for any errors, depended on the supreme authority and presence of the Rishi, the man of a higher spiritual experience and knowledge, born in any of the classes but generally a Brahmin or a Kshatriya, who would discover and interpret the ideal law, the dharma, and its practical meaning, and even initiate a new dharma according to the time and place. With changing time and circumstances, the hereditary convention came to be taken as the sole basis for the identification – which never had been easy even in the earlier periods – of the swabhava, for the external signs were the only ones which were easily and conveniently determinable and birth was the most handy and manageable in an increasingly mechanised, complex and conventional social order. The possible disparities or errors in the identification of the real inborn nature of a person on the basis of birth were made up or reduced to the very minimum by the above-mentioned system of laying down detailed dharmas for each Varna and by intelligently and judiciously establishing a structure of the physical, emotional and mental system of training and education, and also by the recognition of the possibility of hereditary transference of qualities. Even though it could not have been a very perfect and flawless system, it did for a long time and to a large extent serve to prevent gross distortions and corruptions from entering into the Varna system. Also, the hereditary convention was founded on this deep occult truth that the soul (the psychic being) chooses, even before birth, the surroundings, the instrumentality of mind, life and body, its qualities, faculties etc. most suitable for its growth and manifestation. And for the developing souls, there are some guardian beings that assist them in their choice.</p>
			<p class="commentary">Qs. What does it really mean when it is said that essentially there was no difference between a Brahmin and a Shudra, and the latter need not aspire to enter into the Varna of the former, for even by following and acting by the characteristic principle and truth of his nature a Shudra could move towards and attain to the highest spiritual liberation and perfection and realise the Divine? Yet, there are too many confusions and controversies that go by the term ‘<a id="_idIndexMarker249"></a>Shudra’. So, what is the truth of this whole thing?</p>
			<p class="commentary">Ans. Actually, such confusions arise only when one is ignorant of the true meaning of the contextual use of this term bearing multiple significances. Being primarily concerned with an ever more vivid and faultless expression of the deeper truth, the Vedic Rishis used time and again, as need be, the same symbol or term in different contexts and with different significances. So, one may find the term ‘Shudra’ being used to denote a particular Varna, or the inner nature of a person, and the very same being used in a different context to denote the state of the unregenerate small surface consciousness.</p>
			<p class="commentary">When used in the context of the Chaturvarna system – based on the spiritual classification of our innate nature made purely from the point of view of sadhana – the term Shudra would mean the particular Swabhava or the self-nature an embodied soul uses for its self-manifestation, and could in no way carry with it the sense of any essential inferiority of a person. It is only a surface egoistic consciousness that can indulge in such ideas of caste superiority or take pride in it and look highly upon any pursuit of knowledge while looking down upon the work of hired labour and service. When it is the soul (the psychic being) itself that chooses a particular Swabhava for its terrestrial evolution and for its special manifestation, how can there possibly be an essential distinction or any actual superiority of one Swabhava over the other? And since the soul itself chooses a particular course or process of its evolution, that becomes for it also the path through which it can reach its true nature. Moreover, from a deeper view, a true spirit of service is the sure sign of the emergence of the soul. Any one-sided pursuit of self-knowledge (Atmajnana) can at best make a person sattwik, but can never lead to any real attainment. On the contrary, in any such pursuit there remains the danger of the increase of self-centeredness and the pride of knowledge which may prove to be great hindrances in one’s way to the Divine. It is, as pointed out by Yogi Sri <a id="_idIndexMarker250"></a>Krishnaprem, only the sewa of Mukund, the true service of Sri Krishna, that is Nistraigunya that surpasses everything and takes one beyond all lower workings and determinisms. Therefore, from a deeper spiritual viewpoint, the shudra-bhava, the innate nature of self-giving and service, far from being an inferior movement, is rather the greatest among the four Varnas, for this nature goes straight towards complete self-surrender.</p>
			<p class="commentary">But when used within the scheme of a progressive evolution of consciousness, the term ‘Shudra’ would mean the small surface physical consciousness. It has been well-known in our culture that, except those specially gifted or endowed, men, no matter what their inner Varna may be, are generally born as ‘shudras’ with dominant unregenerate animalistic surface nature grossly occupied with the lower satisfactions of physical and vital propensities. Thus, by birth all are ‘Shudras’. Even in the course of the life of a person a discerning eye can very well see how in the beginning he is subject to the domination of Tamas and ignorance and bound to a small self-centered consciousness. As the consciousness emerges from this gross tamasic to a rajaso-tamasic state, there comes some loosening of the knot of the acute self-centeredness and, along with it, a growing sense of mutuality, interrelationship and interchange between creature and creature as the law of Life without which one could not for one moment endure. This spirit of mutuality, acquisition and accumulation is termed as Vaishya. At a higher elevation of the rajasic or kinetic quality of our nature we get the active man with a more dominant will capable of undertaking works of heroism and force. Such a person of dominant higher vital force is termed as Kshatriya. Such a nature is devoted to the pursuit of what it considers to be right or just. The emergence from Rajas to the principle of Sattwa, which has its strongest hold in the mind, makes itself manifest in a mind of reason and balance disinterestedly trying to seek the truth and the right law of things. The accomplished types of such sattwic tendency are termed as a Sadhu, or a Dwij, the twice-born, on the way to become a Vipra, the enlightened one. All these have their vitality subdued and governed by a progressively enlightened intelligence. There can possibly be no doubt that this whole scheme of division or classification of human nature is essentially psychological and qualitative based on the fundamental truth of our being and represents a gradual evolution of human consciousness. It is in view of this fundamental truth that it has always been held that all men are born in their lower nature as Shudras but in their highest inner self are Brahmanas capable of the full spirit and godhead. This psychological and qualitative classification of nature, a scheme altogether different from the Indian Chaturvarnya system, and therefore should in no way be confused with it, doesn’t pertain to Indian culture only. It is a fundamental fact of human nature universally applicable to all cultures and societies. When used in this context, the term Shudra is not representative of any particular Varna but is only meant to signify the preliminary undeveloped state of human psychology through which almost all have to pass. Therefore, it is only proper that an undeveloped physical-minded (shudra) consciousness must evolve in consciousness before it can profitably open to and make use of the deeper truths of existence. Any premature attempt at entry and handling of these truths is likely to have more or less undesirable consequences both for the person and for others. It is in this sense that the saying, ‘<a id="_idIndexMarker251"></a>Janmanā Jāyate Shūdrah’, which means, ‘Everyone is born a shudra’, stays as relevant today as at the time of its inception. This is evident enough even in ordinary life how the integrity, fittingness or propriety of a person is brought into consideration before entrusting him some responsibility or when sharing with him some confidential or sensitive information, so as to safeguard the thing from any misuse by unfit hands. When placed according to this scheme of a gradual evolution of consciousness, the great majority never go beyond the two first stages. Only the rare few can ever attain the state of Dwij, that is, the state of being reborn in the spirit. Thus, in this evolutionary scheme of consciousness, all men, being shudras in their lower nature but Dwij in their inner self, begin in life with a very small (shudra) consciousness and have to evolve and ascend higher by self-culture. Moreover, the more developed the inner being, the more power it has to exert over and cultivate the outer surface nature. This has been the deeper sense of the saying ‘Sanskārāt Dwij Uchyate’, which means, ‘it is only by the inner culture that one is regenerated in a Dwij’. But mind you, the term used is not Brahmin but Dwij, the twice-born, capable of entering into the second birth by initiation and to whom alone the Vedic education can be given without danger. Even this new birth, this new opening of divine illumination in man’s consciousness recurs with the growth of the person, symbolised as the continuous succession of the Dawns in the Vedas. This is a truth clearly and incontrovertibly revealed, time and again, even in the Bhagavad Gita which declares the carrying out of the works proceeding from and determined by one’s own innate nature (swabhava) as the one road by which one can rise towards the highest inner greatness and spiritual freedom and perfection. But if only the one of Brahmin birth (varna) were fit for the initiation in integral Vedic knowledge, as contended by the advocates of the caste system, then no following of Gita’s swadharma could prevent a shudra from getting permanently debarred from this initiation and, therefore, from the highest status and perfection. Nowhere does the Gita seem to indulge in any such absurdity of contradicting its own teaching by prohibiting anyone the entry into the divine doors merely on the basis of any external distinctions. On the contrary, it declares that “If even a man of very evil conduct turns to Me with a sole and entire love, he must be regarded as a saint, for the settled will of endeavour in him is a right and complete will.” (Gita 9:30) In the light of all this discussion, this aspect or truth of the Indian culture should be deeply and clearly understood that not only a Brahmin, but every other varna too was capable of attaining the status of Dwij. This is evident enough from the examples of those spiritually attained individuals, even when of inferior birth, being revered by the whole community and readily accepted as spiritual mentors or Gurus even by those of superior lineage. Thus, the basis and the sense of the term ‘Shudra’ pertains to the essential spiritual truth of our being when it is used to denote the inner varna of a person, whereas, the very same term bears an entirely psychological sense when used to denote the stage of an unregenerate physical-minded consciousness concentrated exclusively on the surface physical self and its gross satisfactions. It is only when one fails to understand the multiple significances and their contextual use of this term that such controversies, as we find associated with it, arise. A right understanding not only reconciles any such misapprehensions but, even more, helps us grow aware of how even those aspects of this culture which at first sight may seem to be superficial, local or temporal, assume a deep, profound and universal significance and meaning when approached through a deeper perspective. ‡ </p>
			<h5 class="Subhead4">(c) The System of Four Ashrams and Its Object</h5>
			<p class="Body-Text">“The whole system of society, founded on the four varnas, was made a harmonious means for the elevation and progress of the soul, mind and life from the natural pursuit of interest and desire first to the perfection of the law of our being, <a id="_idIndexMarker252"></a>Dharma, and at the end to a highest spiritual freedom. For man’s true end in life must be always this realisation of his own immortal self, this entry in its secret of an infinite and eternal existence.</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">The Indian system did not entirely leave this difficult growth to the individual’s unaided inner initiative. It supplied him with a framework; it gave him a scale and gradation for his life which could be made into a kind of ladder rising in that sense. This high convenience was the object of the four <a id="_idIndexMarker253"></a>Asramas. Life was divided into four natural periods and each of them marked out a stage in the working out of this cultural idea of living. There was the period of the student, the period of the householder, the period of the recluse or forest-dweller, the period of the free supersocial man, parivrājaka. The student life was framed to lay the groundwork of what the man had to know, do and be. It gave a thorough training in the necessary arts, sciences, branches of knowledge, but it was still more insistent on the discipline of the ethical nature and in earlier days contained as an indispensable factor a grounding in the Vedic formula of spiritual knowledge. In these earlier days this training was given in suitable surroundings far away from the life of cities and the teacher was one who had himself passed through the round of this circle of living and, very usually, even, one who had arrived at some remarkable realisation of spiritual knowledge. But subsequently education became more intellectual and mundane; it was imparted in cities and universities and aimed less at an inner preparation of character and knowledge and more at instruction and the training of the intelligence. But in the beginning the Aryan man was really prepared in some degree for the four great objects of his life, artha, kāma, dharma, mokṣa. Entering into the householder stage to live out his knowledge, he was able to serve there the three first human objects; he satisfied his natural being and its interests and desire to take the joy of life, he paid his debt to the society and its demands and by the way he discharged his life functions he prepared himself for the last greatest purpose of his existence. In the third stage he retired to the forest and worked out in a certain seclusion the truth of his spirit. He lived in a broad freedom from the stricter social bonds; but if he so willed, gathering the young around him or receiving the inquirer and seeker, he could leave his knowledge to the new rising generation as an educator or a spiritual teacher. In the last stage of life he was free to throw off every remaining tie and to wander over the world in an extreme spiritual detachment from all the forms of social life, satisfying only the barest necessities, communing with the universal spirit, making his soul ready for eternity. This circle was not obligatory on all. The great majority never went beyond the two first stages; many passed away in the vānaprastha or forest stage. Only the rare few made the last extreme venture and took the life of the wandering recluse. But this profoundly conceived cycle gave a scheme which kept the full course of the human spirit in its view; it could be taken advantage of by all according to their actual growth and in its fullness by those who were sufficiently developed in their present birth to complete the circle.”38</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
