<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>BharatiyaSamskritiEnglishCommentary-5</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="BharatiyaSamskritiEnglishCommentary-5" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-5" class="Subhead1">I. The <a id="_idIndexMarker037"></a>Fundamental Idea and the <a id="_idIndexMarker038"></a>Essential Spirit</h2>
			<p class="Body-Text">“It is essential, if we are to get a right view of Indian civilisation or of any civilisation, to keep to the central, living, governing things and not to be led away by the confusion of accidents and details. This is a precaution which the critics of our culture steadily refuse to take. A civilisation, a culture must be looked at first in its initiating, supporting, durable central motives, in its heart of abiding principle; otherwise we shall be likely to find ourselves, like these critics, in a maze without a clue and we shall stumble about among false and partial conclusions and miss entirely the true truth of the matter. The importance of avoiding this error is evident when we are seeking for the essential significance of Indian religious culture. But the same method must be held to when we proceed to observe its dynamic formulation and the effect of its spiritual ideal on life. </p>
			<p class="commentary">‡ If we wish to analyse the actions of a person, we need to first find out the purpose he is striving to fulfil. For, only when we know the destination of a person, can we rightly say whether the path he has taken to reach it is the right one or not. Similarly, when we have an understanding of the fundamental motive of the Indian culture, then only will we be able to view in a real perspective how suitable have those dynamic forms been in which it has embodied its essential spirit and how effective they have been for its expression. It is only then that we will be able to overview the course of the development of this culture in a proper perspective.</p>
			<p class="commentary">But even in getting a clear perception of the essential spirit of this culture, a formidable difficulty presents itself before us, and, that is of our own narrow externalised vision that is accustomed to seeing only the surface of things, and being engrossed in our ego we do not even have any perception of its narrowness, shallowness and smallness. For example, just as it is not possible for an ape’s consciousness to perceive the infinite possibilities latent in human consciousness as compared to an animal’s consciousness. In the same way, when an individual or a community who has not had any deeper realisation, and confusing the surface self for its true self, keeps engrossed in and strives day and night after the satisfaction of its petty material and vital hungers and cravings, it is not possible for such an individual or community living in such a consciousness to even get a glimpse of the riches of a culture that is based on the unfolding of the deeper parts of our being. It is for this reason that in their evaluation of the Indian culture, the critics find themselves caught in a maze of appearances. On the one hand, there is the teeming life of fast, festivals, customs, rituals, injunctions, various cults, etc., of which they cannot understand the first thing, on the other, the austere life of a Sannyasin. For a person living in ordinary surface consciousness, it is not possible to get even a glimpse of what joys there may be in an austere life, a life dedicated to overcoming desire rather than satisfying it. And it is due to this difference of consciousness that he will tend to describe an austere life as a life of impoverishment, the drying up of life-energy. One who has never had a sight of the lofty peaks of the Himalayas, the experience of the deep joy of climbing them and of the passion to stake even one’s life for such a venture, may call all this endeavour as nothing but an unproductive and futile frenzy which really should have no utility or attraction for a sane and rational person or society. As compared to any such adventurous external aims, the Indian culture placed before itself an aim unthinkably greater. It had glimpsed and had the experience of the absolute transcendent Being and developed a vast and complex system in the form of <a id="_idIndexMarker039"></a>Sanatana Dharma which could lead, as swiftly as possible, each individual and collectivity, from whatever its immediate physical, emotional, psychological and inner state to the state of self-experience, self-attainment and self-fulfilment. Seldom do we come across a person who, even with an aspiration for self-realisation – which itself is not common – can actually fulfil it in his life to any extent and mould his life according to that ideal. The reason for this lies in the kind of outer nature with which we start in the evolution. This nature is such that it is occupied, almost exclusively, with the satisfaction of one’s egoistic and baser animal appetites. And since this journey of self-transcendence is much more of an inner and psychological nature than of the external, the path is compared to a razor’s edge and is full of deceptions and dangerous traps and ambushes because even a slight deviation in the inner course leads to a great deviation from the path externally. Still, Indian culture did not aim to take only a few gifted souls to this strenuous and formidable ideal of self-realisation but to prepare each and every soul for this ultimate journey and even achieved great success in this very difficult endeavour. During this great effort, this culture built – or rather, developed spontaneously through the inspiration of the Rishis – numerous external, but deep rooted forms, codes of conduct, systems, institutions, etc. We cannot get to the true purport of these forms on the basis of their outer appearance alone. It is only in the light of the fundamental motive of this culture that one can begin to rightly approach and understand these. When a critic tries to review the outer details without even understanding the basic motive of the culture and the need of such disciplines for its practical implementation, misconceptions naturally arise. It must be kept in mind that for anyone to have a deeper perception of even the fundamental motive itself, a certain inner cultivation and refinement is a prerequisite. When even to acquire the qualification for analysing a particular art demands long and methodical training under proper guidance, it is obvious that the capacity to really appreciate the deep motive of a spiritual culture can be acquired only by a great previous preparation, hard labour and discipline in the close company of persons who are solely moved by such a motive in their lives. ‡</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">Indian culture recognises the spirit as the truth of our being and our life as a growth and evolution of the spirit. It sees the Eternal, the Infinite, the Supreme, the All; it sees this as the secret highest Self of all, this is what it calls God, the Permanent, the Real, and it sees man as a soul and power of this being of God in Nature. The progressive growth of the finite consciousness of man towards this Self, towards God, towards the universal, the eternal, the infinite, in a word his growth into spiritual consciousness, by the development of his ordinary ignorant natural being into an illumined divine nature, is for Indian thinking the significance of life and the aim of human existence. To this deeper and more spiritual idea of Nature and of existence a great deal of what is strongest and most potential of fruitful consequences in recent European thinking already turns with a growing impetus. This turn may be a relapse to “barbarism” or it may be the high natural outcome of her own increasing and ripened culture; that is a question for Europe to decide. But always to India this ideal inspiration or rather this spiritual vision of Self, God, Spirit, this nearness to a cosmic consciousness, a cosmic sense and feeling, a cosmic idea, will, love, delight into which we can release the limited, ignorant, suffering ego, this drive towards the transcendental, eternal and infinite, and the moulding of man into a conscious soul and power of that greater Existence have been the engrossing motive of her philosophy, the sustaining force of her religion, the <a id="_idIndexMarker040"></a>fundamental idea of her civilisation and culture.”²</p>
			<p class="commentary">‡ The fundamental conception of Indian culture is that, in the form of his soul, there is a truth inherent in man which is eternal, infinite and supremely blissful. His perception of the whole phenomenal world, the entire outer manifestation is, as though, an imperfect, crude or distorted form of that truth. The soul, in this manifestation, puts on as its instrument a personality made up of mind, life and body, and using it, marches towards regaining its own real self, its original truth. Since the composition of physical, emotional, psychological and inner parts in a person is entirely different from that of any other, and even in the same person their balance keeps shifting during his life – and not only that, the more conscious and inwardly developed a person becomes, the more will this change the balance of his emotional, psychological and inner parts, and their interrelationships – therefore the path of one person to reach his true goal is likely to be different from that of any other. It is a remarkable characteristic of the ancient Indian culture that from the very beginning it has been aware of this diversity. It knew that the Divine has infinite qualities, attributes and dimensions, and in each embodied soul He fulfils some particular facets of his Being. It is to effectively bring out and embody this truth that all the various systems of this culture evolved.</p>
			<p class="commentary">At the time when Sri Aurobindo was writing these articles about the Indian culture, he observed, in a progressive section of the Europe of that time, an inclination towards the deeper truths of life as propounded by the Indian culture. But in Europe itself this tendency was decried by others as a return to barbarism under the influence of Asia. Therefore, it was in view of the then current circumstances that Sri Aurobindo wrote that whether that turn was a relapse to barbarism or a natural outcome of opening and developing towards deeper and sublimer values of life, was for Europe itself to decide. The situation in the West has now changed a lot compared to that at the time of Sri Aurobindo and, as envisaged by him, the impact of Indian culture is increasing there day by day. In Western countries, while earlier there was hardly any Hindu temple, or ashram, or any spiritual centre to be found, but now the situation has changed so much that there would hardly be any city in which one would not find a number of these and in which the locals do not participate wholeheartedly. An example of this is the huge procession of the Chariot of Jaggannath celebrated with great pomp and show even in Western countries, and likewise, the celebration of some other Indian festivals and events is also becoming popular. While earlier the ancient Indian texts were looked down upon with scorn as the records of a barbaric mankind, now their study has become more and more the subject of research in universities. Texts of Indian spirituality are readily available at any good bookshop or library in any of the cities of the West. Where earlier, the inclination towards such study or towards the values of this culture, or visiting some spiritual teacher, etc. were looked down upon and disapproved, now such notions or such an outlook are almost gone and such an inclination is beginning to be considered proper. All these changes in the West are clearly visible to anyone who cares to observe them. But the question of whether the West is actually moving or going to move towards the spirit, towards deeper values of life in near future is a different matter. Here we are concerned only with the fundamental conception of Indian culture which, since its very beginning, has been that the spirit is the main element of our life and the sole purpose of life is to progressively express and fulfil it in terrestrial nature. ‡</p>
			<p class="_stars">* * *</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">“…the principle, the essential intention of Indian culture was extraordinarily high, ambitious and noble, the highest indeed that the human spirit can conceive. For what can be a greater idea of life than that which makes it a development of the spirit in man to its most vast, secret and high possibilities, – a culture that conceives of life as a movement of the Eternal in time, of the universal in the individual, of the infinite in the finite, of the Divine in man, or holds that man can become not only conscious of the eternal and the infinite, but live in its power and universalise, spiritualise and divinise himself by self-knowledge? What greater aim can be for the life of man than to grow by an inner and outer experience till he can live in God, realise his spirit, become divine in knowledge, in will and in the joy of his highest existence? And that is the whole sense of the striving of Indian culture. </p>
			<p class="commentary">‡ The conception, the vision of Indian culture has been the highest possible for human capability. It holds that the small and limited personality that man appears to be in this phenomenal manifestation is not the actual or the whole truth of his being. In its true Self, it is the Eternal itself that has come down into this temporal manifestation and it is the Infinite Consciousness that has become limited, and it is the Transcendent and Universal consciousness that has manifested as an individual personality. Such has been the conception of our Rishis. But they did not leave it as a sublime conception only, instead they made it the practical aim of the whole race. The voice of the Rishis has always been that man in his life can, by increasingly developing his inner consciousness, dwell in the native qualities of the soul, such as knowledge, bliss, love, etc. He can make his life a field for the ever more perfect expression of all those qualities, and by developing his consciousness can even become one with the Supreme Divine. This fundamental idea was behind all the creation that took place in India based on the Spirit and shaped by the spontaneous intuition and inspiration of the Rishis. ‡</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">It is easy to say that these ideas are fantastic, chimerical and impracticable, that there is no spirit and no eternal and nothing divine, and man would do much better not to dabble in religion and philosophy, but rather make the best he can of the ephemeral littleness of his life and body. That is a negation natural enough to the vital and physical mind, but it rests on the assumption that man can only be what he is at the moment, and there is nothing greater in him which it is his business to evolve; such a negation has no enduring value. The whole <a id="_idIndexMarker041"></a>aim of a great culture is to lift man up to something which at first he is not, to lead him to knowledge though he starts from an unfathomable ignorance, to teach him to live by his reason, though actually he lives much more by his unreason, by the law of good and unity, though he is now full of evil and discord, by a law of beauty and harmony though his actual life is a repulsive muddle of ugliness and jarring barbarisms, by some high law of his spirit, though at present he is egoistic, material, unspiritual, engrossed by the needs and desires of his physical being. If a civilisation has not any of these aims, it can hardly at all be said to have a culture and certainly in no sense a great and noble culture. But the last of these aims, as conceived by ancient India, is the highest of all because it includes and surpasses all the others. To have made this attempt is to have ennobled the life of the race; to have failed in it is better than if it had never at all been attempted; to have achieved even a partial success is a great contribution to the future possibilities of the human being.”³</p>
			<p class="commentary">‡ The main difference between the <a id="_idIndexMarker042"></a>West and India is that while the life of the West is turned outward, that of India is turned inward. This fundamental difference in outlook is the reason for their difference in attitude towards life and, correspondingly, in all the forms that have arisen from it. While the Indian tendency has always been to first know the reason and the deeper truth behind things and then in that light to see and judge the outer forms and their interrelationships, the Western tendency, in the absence of any deep perception, measures a being exclusively by its more surface expressions and considers the sensible life alone as the all in all. Therefore, its whole effort has naturally been to satisfy man’s physical and vital being. The proper business of the mind – a part of the being and a power higher in scale than the vital and the physical – is to remain open to intuitions and inspirations coming from the higher and deeper parts of the being and be instrumental in expressing these in life as best as it can by keeping the physical and vital parts under its control and guidance. But, instead, due to the externalising outlook of life in the West, it gets enslaved by the physical and vital parts and – as can be seen clearly in the modern societies – remains largely confined to the search for ever more and more efficient arrangements for the satisfaction of these parts. Therefore, when it comes to the question of the reality of the Self, the Eternal and the Infinite, the Western mentality tends to call these fanciful. For it, the structure of our mind, life and body that we have got at present, is all that we have and we should try to make an increasingly efficient use of this in such a way that we may derive the maximum possible comfort, enjoyment and satisfaction out of this ephemeral life. The root of this belief is that man can only be what he is at present. Therefore, it is necessary that he is trained to make the most of his endowments by making increasing use of the powers and potencies of physical science for this purpose. To its view, this is the real meaning of development, whereas, truly, the chief aim of any great culture should be to progressively open before man novel dimensions on an ascending scale and help him in his ascension so that, from whatever his current stage, he may keep rising to ever greater heights of his being and, at the same time, keep progressively expressing them in his life. In the beginning, the natural man is engrossed in the crudeness, unreason, ugliness, discords, desires and wants and needs of the physical being. Therefore, the primary aim of any culture should be to refine and cultivate a man to be more civilised, reasonable, aesthetic, sensitive, harmonious and self-controlled. It is relatively easy to see the necessity of the refinement of the external personality – almost all cultures realise its importance and try to work for it – but Indian culture did not just stop here but went far beyond it and in attempting to lift man beyond his transience placed before him the aim of realising his true self, of gaining the riches of the Spirit. An aim greater than any other and containing in itself all other aims transcends them, because it opens before him the inconceivable idea in which human life becomes not only an expression of his external capabilities but of inner and higher states of being. And life finds its true meaning and fulfilment in becoming the sphere for this sublime expression. This has been the highest aim of Indian culture and centred on it, it has created its whole structure. The spiritual aim of Indian culture is so unimaginably great that even to have made an effort for it is a sign of an indomitable courage. To even have the courage to set out for such a great endeavour and apply one’s full capacity for its realisation – even though the chances of success in such a highly improbable adventure may appear to be bleak, or even when failure seems certain – is to open for man new avenues and possibilities and greatly increase his future prospects. To explore the secrets of even the material world, we see scientists making untiring efforts and despite the substantial time and resources spent, the first efforts are not always successful. But without getting discouraged they continue to make fresh efforts and thanks to such spirit, physical science has put in the hands of mankind so many new capabilities. All this would not have been possible if the first failures had prevented man from making new attempts. Of course, the ceaseless efforts of physical science cannot really be compared to the work of Indian culture to realise its lofty aims because the scope of the physical science is completely different and limited. However, it does illustrate how the use of greater than the expected energy and resources are not wasteful in any attempt to realise a lofty aim. Actually, the more lofty the aim, the greater will be the possibilities that will open before one in the course of its pursuit. But just as it cannot be really explained to a grossly utilitarian person that without literature, art and music one is as good as an animal and it is only these things that make up one’s true manhood, similarly, it cannot be explained to a person having materialistic views that life gets its true meaning and justification only when one makes it the means to rise to ever higher levels of his consciousness, surpasses oneself and realises the truth of one’s being. ‡</p>
			<p class="_stars">* * *</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">“A true happiness in this world is the right terrestrial aim of man, and <a id="_idIndexMarker043"></a><a id="_idIndexMarker044"></a>true happiness lies in the finding and maintenance of a natural harmony of spirit, mind and body. A culture is to be valued to the extent to which it has discovered the right key of this harmony and organised its expressive motives and movements. And a civilisation must be judged by the manner in which all its principles, ideas, forms, ways of living work to bring that harmony out, manage its rhythmic play and secure its continuance or the development of its motives. A civilisation in pursuit of this aim may be predominantly material like modern European culture, predominantly mental and intellectual like the old Graeco-Roman or predominantly spiritual like the still persistent culture of India. <a id="_idIndexMarker045"></a>India’s central conception is that of the Eternal, the Spirit here incased in matter, involved and immanent in it and evolving on the material plane by rebirth of the individual up the scale of being till in mental man it enters the world of ideas and realm of conscious morality, <a id="_idIndexMarker046"></a>dharma. This achievement, this victory over unconscious matter develops its lines, enlarges its scope, elevates its levels until the increasing manifestation of the sattwic or spiritual portion of the vehicle of mind enables the individual mental being in man to identify himself with the pure spiritual consciousness beyond Mind. India’s social system is built upon this conception; her philosophy formulates it; her religion is an aspiration to the spiritual consciousness and its fruits; her art and literature have the same upward look; her whole dharma or law of being is founded upon it. Progress she admits, but this spiritual progress, not the externally self-unfolding process of an always more and more prosperous and efficient material civilisation. It is her founding of life upon this exalted conception and her urge towards the spiritual and the eternal that constitute the distinct value of her civilisation. And it is her fidelity, with whatever human shortcomings, to this highest ideal that has made her people a nation apart in the human world.”4</p>
			<p class="commentary">‡ It is quite obvious that even our physical body can be at ease and happy only when all its organs are healthy and functioning smoothly. If even one of the organs is in pain or is diseased, or is damaged, the body cannot feel happy. Just as the body, with all its organs, is an integral unit, similarly the human being too with its various parts – body, vital, mind and soul – is a whole unit that can function smoothly only by a proper coordination and harmony between all these parts. True happiness of life cannot be achieved by establishing harmony between the outer parts of our being only and neglecting the inner parts, which should, in the true nature of things, govern the outer parts and use them to express themselves. For, as pointed out by Sri Aurobindo, “Even to have a healthy body, a strong vitality and an active and clarified mind and a field for their action and enjoyment, carries man no more than a certain distance; afterwards he flags and tires for want of a real self-finding, a satisfying aim for his action and progress. These three things do not make the sum of a complete manhood; they are means to an ulterior end and cannot be made for ever an aim in themselves. Add a rich emotional life governed by a well-ordered ethical standard, and still there is the savour of something left out, some supreme good…”(CWSA 25, 224) And that thing is man’s soul, his true spirit.</p>
			<p class="commentary">Ancient Indian culture had a deep understanding of this fundamental truth from the very beginning that, behind our outer being is the eternal spirit and the whole meaning of life is to become conscious of its presence and to realise it by self-discovery and self-mastery. It is only by such a self-mastery that we can find what is good and beautiful in life otherwise it is full of unhappiness and disharmony. But as clearly the Rishis saw the spirit enveloped in matter and the inevitability of its progressive unfolding over time, so clearly did they also see the complexity of human nature and knew that only a system which recognized this complexity could be enduring. It is through the agency of such great ancient seers that by the action of the divine inspiration a grand system of eternal religion – <a id="_idIndexMarker047"></a>Sanatana Dharma – got developed. Sanatana Dharma is the most perfect and efficient vehicle that strives to lead, as effectively as possible, both the individual and the collectivity to the accomplishment of the most sublime spiritual goal. In this pursuit, it surrounded the whole of the individual and communal life at every step with such symbols, rites, ideals, injunctions etc. as to keep its supreme goal in front of individuals and the society constantly and help them move towards that. Moreover, it was organised to govern all the parts by some higher Law, and yet leave plenty of room not only for the satisfaction of the mental, intellectual or ethical parts of the being, but also for the satisfaction of the most outer and hedonistic parts. </p>
			<p class="commentary">The undeniable evidence of India’s faithfulness to its soul and its persistent effort and success in expressing it in practice in all the fields of life such as music, drama, architecture, sculpture, painting, literature, astronomy, astrology and in countless other fields is available for anyone who sincerely cares to look for it. It was able to excel in each field because its faithfulness to the Spirit, which is behind everything, was not one-sided but expressed itself through all the fields of mind, life and body.</p>
			<p class="commentary">At present India has become a living representation of all the acute problems faced by humanity at large and the true purpose of India is to solve these problems on the basis of the Spirit not only for itself but for the whole world. Spirituality is the innate quality given to India by the Divine to fulfil its special role. This it can do by rediscovering itself and showing to the world that it is only by the harmonisation of the truth of its outer nature with the truth of its inmost spiritual nature that it can live in harmony and find a true and lasting solution to its present discords. We feel that the chances of success on this front have increased significantly due to the February 29, 1956 descent of the supramental consciousness. ‡</p>
			<p class="_stars">* * *</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">“…there is a great difference between the <a id="_idIndexMarker048"></a>spiritual and the purely material and mental view of existence. The spiritual view holds that the mind, life, body are man’s means and not his aims and even that they are not his last and highest means; it sees them as his outer instrumental self and not his whole being. It sees the infinite behind all things finite and it adjudges the value of the finite by higher infinite values of which they are the imperfect translation and towards which, to a truer expression of them, they are always trying to arrive. It sees a greater reality than the apparent not only behind man and the world, but within man and the world, and this soul, self, divine thing in man it holds to be that in him which is of the highest importance, that which everything else in him must try in whatever way to bring out and express, and this soul, self, divine presence in the world it holds to be that which man has ever to try to see and recognise through all appearances, to unite his thought and life with it and in it to find his unity with his fellows. This alters necessarily our whole normal view of things; even in preserving all the aims of human life, it will give them a different sense and direction.”5</p>
			<p class="commentary">‡ This fundamental difference of view about life is the reason for the complete difference between the Indian spiritual and the Western materialistic culture. It is only when one gets a deep experience of the fact that it is only our spirit or soul which gives to life and all its strivings their true meaning and value that one will be able to truly understand and appreciate the whole effort of the Indian culture, the profound object of all its art, literature, music, etc., and the great extent to which they have been able to faithfully express it. Only a deeper and sympathetic view will enable one to see the deep rationale behind those uncountable forms, traditions, customs, institutions, rituals, ceremonies which spontaneously sprang up in the process of an increasing expression of the truth of the spirit in human life. Only such a deep and sympathetic view can enable one to appreciate the superhuman genius and effort of a culture which has always been faithful to its deepest spiritual vision of the existence of the one without a second – <a id="_idIndexMarker049"></a>Ekamevadvitiyam. And not only that one without a second, the Infinite, Transcendent and Eternal Being, but even this finite, terrestrial and time-bound being too is the same One, because, as India always saw, only the infinite can become finite, only the transcendent can manifest in universal conditions, and only the Eternal can take birth in time, otherwise there can be no basis for such a time-bound limited existence that we experience here. Not only this, but what seems to us undivine, even that, it saw as a mere disguise of that sole-existent One. It is on the basis of this supreme and comprehensive vision that the Indian culture structured its whole web of life. And since in everything it saw the One – the Infinite and the Eternal behind, therefore its all-absorbing interest was always to reveal that divine source behind the visible appearances and connect these with the Source.</p>
			<p class="commentary">According to Sri Aurobindo, “The superconscient, not the subconscient, is the <a id="_idIndexMarker050"></a>true fountain of things. The significance of the lotus is not to be found by analysing the secrets of the mud from which it grows here; its secret is to be found in the <a id="_idIndexMarker051"></a>heavenly archetype of the lotus that blooms for ever in the Light above.”(CWSA 31, 616) Now, in the light of the above it becomes obvious that the current <a id="_idIndexMarker052"></a>approach of science in its search for truth is just the opposite of what is needed. It is only through consciousness that things can be truly understood. Therefore, the attempt to reach the truth on the basis of matter alone cannot be very successful. In this context the following remark of Sri Aurobindo is very illuminating, “There is no fundamental significance in things if you miss the Divine Reality; for you remain embedded in a huge surface crust of manageable and utilisable appearance. It is the magic of the Magician you are trying to analyse, but only when you enter into the <a id="_idIndexMarker053"></a>consciousness of the Magician himself can you begin to experience the true origination, significance and circles of the Lila. I say “begin” because the Divine Reality is not so simple that at the first touch you can know all of it or put it into a single formula; it is Infinite and opens before you an Infinite Knowledge to which all <a id="_idIndexMarker054"></a>Science put together is a bagatelle.”(CWSA 28, 332) So the only thing worthwhile and meaningful is that we should go within, develop our consciousness, realise our true self and then try to express only that. ‡</p>
			<p class="_stars">* * *</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">“If we would understand the essential spirit of Indian civilisation, we must go back to its first formative period, the early epoch of the Veda and the Upanishads, its heroic creative <a id="_idIndexMarker055"></a>seed-time. If we would study the fixed forms of its spirit and discern the thing it eventually realised as the basic rhythm of its life, we must look with an observing eye at the later middle period of the Shastras and the classic writings, the age of philosophy and science, legislation and political and social theory and many-sided critical thought, religious fixation, art, sculpture, painting, architecture. If we would discover the limitations, the points at which it stopped short and failed to develop its whole or its true spirit, we must observe closely the unhappy disclosures of its period of decline. If, finally, we would discover the directions it is likely to follow in its transformation, we must try to fathom what lies beneath the still confused movements of its crisis of renascence. None of these can indeed be cut clean apart from each other; for what developed in one period is already forecast and begun in the preceding age: but still on a certain large and imprecise scale we can make these distinctions and they are necessary for a discerning analytic view. But at present we are only concerned with the developed forms and the principal rhythms which persisted through its greater eras. </p>
			<p class="commentary">‡ Thus there are broadly three periods through which the <a id="_idIndexMarker056"></a>Indian culture passed. The first was the seed-time, followed by the outflowering of that seed-time in various forms, and finally the period of decadence. Here we should keep in mind that the things of the seed-time did not disappear even in the second and the last period, only their outer appearance underwent some change. This is the reason why even in the present times the Vedas, the Upanishads, the Puranas, the Gita and other texts are still present and keep their influence behind each and every detail of our social and individual life in one form or the other. </p>
			<p class="commentary">But to understand why after all this culture had to go through these stages, we must first understand what the aim of this culture was. For, only in the light of that aim can we rightly analyse the course of development it followed, and understand the logic of all the different forms, vicissitudes etc. that it met on the way. Once we understand this, then the periods through which the Indian culture passed will appear not as random accidents, but as perfectly interconnected and systematic episodes of the progression. If the goal of a person is to ascend a lofty mountain, or to take a long sea voyage, or to build a huge palace, then according to the respective goals broad outlines will have to be prepared first. According to these outlines the routes or the courses will be different, as also the materials required for the endeavour. Even the nature of the problems or crises likely to be met on the way will be different, and eventually, the greatness of the success achieved in the pursuit will be in proportion to the sublimity of the goal, because there can hardly be any comparison between climbing a small hill and scaling a towering mountain, and, therefore, between the successes achieved in both these endeavours. Now, if the critic happens to be ignorant about the goal, then on what basis can he judge whether or not the actions or activities of a person are in accordance with it? Even more absurd than this is when the critic tries to denigrate a person for having failed in accomplishing something which the person was not even striving for. So, it is only when we understand what the real aim of the Indian culture was – although even to have a true sense of that requires a deep inner cultivation and a vast and refined intelligence – that we will be able to truly understand the logic of the periods through which it passed. We can somewhat try to understand the course of development of this culture through this example : suppose we get an inspiration to build a huge palace and we resolve to give shape to that inspiration. We prepare a broad framework for the construction and mobilise the initially necessary resources and the construction work begins. It involves first building some supporting structures that can be removed once their use is over. Since the plan is so huge and vast, it takes a long time for even the basic structure to be ready. Not only that, until it reaches its completion, it probably has to face many seasons, many natural adversities or numerous other exigencies, or even such disruptions as were not and could not have been anticipated at the time of the initial conception. Now, the person who doesn’t know or does not have the capacity to understand either the whole plan, or the process of execution of such a huge plan, or the nuances involved in the process and the challenges of such a work, or has any sense of the time taken in such constructions, then, can one ever hope to understand anything much of the whole plan from the perspective of such an ignorant person? This can be seen happening at present, almost universally, in India where the educated class – groomed under the system of education, values, institutions brought in wholesale from the West – has been trying to arrive at an understanding of their (Indian) culture. Never suspecting that they may be utterly incapable and off, and that in their ignorance they have been (especially since Independence) asserting their understanding and deprecatory judgement as the final truth about the Indian culture. Needless to add that there can be no comparison between the deep complexities and obstacles in the course of development of a great spiritual culture and the surface complexities and obstacles or problems involved in the construction of even the largest mansion or a city. </p>
			<p class="commentary"><a id="_idIndexMarker057"></a>Seed-time was that period of the Indian culture when its fundamental conception or the fundamental aim was being formulated and the large lines were being laid accordingly. This was the time when the whole secret of our existence, of how the supreme consciousness manifests itself, was revealed through the Vedas. Since our Rishis dwelt in a consciousness of spontaneous spiritual intuition not expressible in plain mental terms, the truths were revealed in an apparently ambiguous language of symbols and figures which for the common masses, living predominantly in their physical consciousness, bore only some exoteric ritualistic sense while to those initiates and seers who were ready to understand and live according to that deeper purport, it revealed its secret inner meaning and the esoteric sense. This was the period when the Rishis were spontaneously open to and in union with the Divine consciousness in their inner being and so through their agency the Divine consciousness could flawlessly create the necessary forms, systems, institutions etc. for its self-expression. It is perhaps because of this that the vast and comprehensive structure of the Sanatana Dharma could evolve, for it is not possible for a mental consciousness to even conceive such a thing. The second period of this culture was the time when the original conception of the Rishis was expressed in more visible and external forms of life. The final stage came while facing the problems that arose in the course of practical implementation of that conception and resolving these in its light and adapting to the changed demands of the time marked by a further descent of the spirit into the vital and physical nature of man.</p>
			<p class="commentary">Qs. What is the meaning of the confused movements of the <a id="_idIndexMarker058"></a>crisis of renascence?</p>
			<p class="commentary">Ans. There is an appearance of confused movements when in the course of development of a culture a period is nearing its maturity and a new period is emerging and, as a result, the new element begins to take greater prominence, although the achievements and elements of the previous period remain and still have their impact but do so mostly indirectly. Thus, the original intuitional and spiritual character of the Indian culture, which was predominant in the first period, fundamentally remained unchanged even in the changing forms of the subsequent periods; it only changed its expression in forms suited to the new period. As the initial age of intuition began to pass and mind began to dominate more and more, there came the period of the Upanishads and the six Darshanas and accordingly there was a change in the visible structure of society. Thus, as the spirit moved from the deeper to the more outer parts of being, that is, after intuition, as it moved more and more towards the outer parts of mind and vital, there came the changes in art, literature and other forms of expression, along with the changes in the social framework of Indian culture. At present the spirit seems to have come down to the most material parts of our nature and – coupled with the appearance of confused outer movements – is facing an acute difficulty in expressing itself through these. As always, Indian culture has again responded to this new equation in a most fitting manner. The coming of Sri Aurobindo and the Mother and their announcement of the descent of the supramental consciousness upon earth and thus opening the way towards the eventual transformation even of the material nature may be looked upon as the response of the Indian culture to the need of the hour. It is only Sri Aurobindo’s vision of a divine life upon earth that resolves the riddle of such an earthly existence. It is an enigma to the human reason that why should the supreme spirit descend and get entrapped into matter in the first place if the only purpose – as declared by a galaxy of great Yogis and Tapaswis – is to escape out of this earthly life into some form of liberation or Nirvana. In <a id="_idIndexMarker059"></a>Sri Aurobindo’s view the earth is meant to express perfectly the highest heights of the spirit of which the Supramental Consciousness is the first decisive step which marks the ascent from chequered evolution in the ignorance to an evolution not from ignorance to knowledge but from knowledge to a greater knowledge. At present, mankind is going through a serious <a id="_idIndexMarker060"></a>evolutionary crisis and a stage seems to have come where its very existence seems to be at stake. It is a crisis where all the problems facing humanity will have to be resolved in the light of the supramental spirit, for the current problems seem to be too overwhelming for the human mental consciousness to handle – preoccupied, as it is, with the petty satisfactions of its surface physical and vital nature. ‡</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">The <a id="_idIndexMarker061"></a>problem which Indian culture had to solve was that of a firm outward basis on which to found the practical development of its spirit and its idea in life. How are we to take the natural life of man and, while allowing it sufficient scope and variety and freedom, yet to subject it to a law, canon, <a id="_idIndexMarker062"></a>dharma, a law of function, a law of type, a law of each actual unideal human tendency and a law too of highest ideal intention? And how again are we to point that dharma towards its own exceeding by the fulfilment and cessation of its disciplinary purpose in the secure freedom of the spiritual life? Indian culture from an early stage seized upon a double idea for its own guidance which it threw into a basic system of the individual life in the social frame. This was the double system of the four <a id="_idIndexMarker063"></a>Varnas and the four <a id="_idIndexMarker064"></a>Asramas, – four graded classes of society and four successive stages of a developing human life.”6</p>
			<p class="commentary">‡ It is only when we understand the problem which Indian culture was striving to solve that we can understand the reason and the significance of the periods or ages through which it passed. This whole book is, as it were, a detailed elucidation of this very problem and the remarkable way in which the Indian culture has tried to resolve it. If a culture sets for itself a goal of self-realisation, self-mastery and the establishment of the rule of the spirit in life, then how should it go about building such a comprehensive system in which every person with all the complexities of his individual being, and the whole society, with all its various aspects and forms, can accomplish this goal as swiftly and as integrally as possible. Even an individual being is comprised of infinite complexities, with many personalities and various parts, such as material-physical, hedonistic, emotional, imaginative, aesthetic, idealistic, ideative and intellectual and increasingly higher and deeper parts of consciousness. The balance of all these parts and personalities varies from person to person, and even in one person it changes with the changing stages of his physical, psychical and inner development. Therefore, to lead even an individual to self-realisation and self-mastery, starting from a particular equation of his being, is perhaps the most difficult task in human life. But the complexities involved become far too unfathomable and profound for the human mind to even contemplate when such a goal is set for the whole society. Still, such has been the very effort of this culture. The <a id="_idIndexMarker065"></a>problem before it was how to build a system in which even the most insignificant activity and even the smallest detail of human life may be brought into contact with the soul and kept under a higher law, a system in which, even while allowing them their just chance of satisfaction, the lower tendencies of the vitalistic parts of man are refined and opened to a higher aim, and in which having freed them from their narrow grooves, the mind is filled with wider perspectives. In the course of this pursuit the comprehensive system or structure that developed through the agency of our Rishis is what we call <a id="_idIndexMarker066"></a>Sanatana Dharma or the Eternal Religion. Here there is an important point which we should always keep in mind. When it is said that this structure was developed through our Rishis, then in fact it may be more appropriate to say that since the Rishis lived in an intuitive consciousness and were in constant union with the spiritual consciousness, the divine nature spontaneously used their agency to express itself as and when and where, and in forms and ways as suited best to its purpose. This is perhaps the secret of how such a comprehensive, all-embracing and ever-growing system of Sanatana Dharma could manifest. It is not at all necessary that the Rishis had consciously planned for or would have even been conscious of any such system in this way – the way Sri Aurobindo has been able to perceive it. By the divine providence, it was left to Sri Aurobindo to provide a perfectly coherent and deep systematic perspective on the functioning of the Sanatana Dharma in Indian culture and thereby put in the right perspective the forms, types and rhythms that it gave to life in its long evolutionary course. Nowhere else do we find the rationale of why in the pursuit of its goal did this culture develop novel forms, rhythms and systems such as the four varnas and the four ashramas. In addition to these there was yet another quartette of the four purusharthas which we shall be discussing later on in greater detail.</p>
			<p class="commentary">When talking of the system of <a id="_idIndexMarker067"></a>varnas, being generally ignorant of the fundamental truth behind it, one tends to regard it as based on an occupational or a caste distinction. But fundamentally, in our ancient tradition the division of <a id="_idIndexMarker068"></a>Chaturvarnas or the <a id="_idIndexMarker069"></a>fourfold order of society was based on a profound spiritual and psychological truth of our being and nature, which is as relevant even today as it was in the ancient times. The basis of this truth is our innate nature, our <a id="_idIndexMarker070"></a>swabhava. Originally this division was made from the point of view of sadhana, not from the point of view of any occupation or economic division, for, profession or outer work was only a means for the expression of that innate nature. Later on, when the identification of the inner swabhava became difficult, birth came to be taken as the main determining factor and the varna of a person began to get determined solely on the basis of his heredity. </p>
			<p class="commentary">The fundamental truth behind the Chaturvarna or the fourfold order, as revealed by Sri Aurobindo, is that the Divine Mother has infinite powers and personalities, but in terrestrial manifestation only four of her personalities – <a id="_idIndexMarker071"></a>Maheshwari, Mahakali, Mahalakshmi and Mahasaraswati – have been prominently active, and so, whichever power happens to be more prominently active in a person, the nature of the outer work most suited to him will be in accordance with that. For instance, if the action of Mahakali is prominent in a person then he will be more facilitated in a work that is in accordance with it, while on the contrary, if he were asked to engage in the work of service, he would not be able to truly perform it. Or, if in someone the aspect of knowledge happens to be predominant and therefore, has spontaneously a strong seeking for knowledge, then, he will find it cumbersome to undertake a work other than the one suited to his disposition, and he will not be able to do it well. This has been the rationale behind the system of the fourfold order in this culture. When the aim was to take the whole of society and the whole of humanity towards the Divine, then the work most suited to a person in leading him to the Divine depended much more on his inner nature, swabhava, than on his outer nature. Even in one single family there can be people with varying natures and to try to take them all towards the Divine by any one single line of work would not be fruitful. By not acting in accordance with his own swabhava, there arises a conflict within the person and the whole society will be deprived of the best that he could have otherwise given to it. Therefore, in order that a person may get the right guidance and proper standards for doing works ordained by his own swabhava, extensive and comprehensive <a id="_idIndexMarker072"></a>shastras were written. When in this light we deeply meditate upon the system of fourfold order, we realise how indispensable it was for an individual and the society having the aim of self-exceeding before it. Along with it, there was yet another perception in this culture that generally the movement of a person towards his goal is necessarily marked by some distinct stages (<a id="_idIndexMarker073"></a>Ashramas) in his life. For instance, even for a person endowed with the swabhava of brahmin, the dharma or the standard of conduct applicable to him at any given time will depend on whether he is in his childhood or in adulthood. For, can the same rules or obligations be imposed on a child as they can be on an adult? Not only this, along with the system of <a id="_idIndexMarker074"></a>varnashrama, the law or the notion of <a id="_idIndexMarker075"></a>desh-kala-patra, that is, place-time-person, also got developed. The very same dharma or law that is beneficial to one person may be absolutely disastrous for another. Even for the same person a thing that proved to be beneficial at a certain period of time may not prove to be so at a different time or in a different setting. Thus, the actual implementation of any dharma or law was not done without a reference to the time, place and person.</p>
			<p class="commentary">But the singular uniqueness of this culture was that despite all the complexity and pervasiveness of its various systems, it was still so flexible and sensitive to the call of the soul that once a person received the inner call, no varnashrama dharma would any longer be binding on him, rather only the law of his own soul or the word of his guru, since both are essentially the same, alone became binding on him. Therefore, it was a system in which the lower appetites were always kept strictly under the yoke of a higher law, yet it gave complete freedom to everyone to follow the call of their soul when that came. ‡</p>
			<p class="_stars">* * *</p>
			<p class="Body-Text">“On this first firm and noble basis Indian civilisation grew to its maturity and became a thing rich, splendid and unique. While it filled the view with the last mountain prospect of a supreme spiritual elevation, it did not neglect the life of the levels. It lived between the busy life of the city and village, the freedom and seclusion of the forest and the last overarching illimitable ether. Moving firmly between life and <a id="_idIndexMarker076"></a>death it saw beyond both and cut out a hundred high-roads to immortality. It developed the external nature and drew it into the inner self; it enriched life to raise it into the spirit. Thus founded, thus trained, the ancient Indian race grew to astonishing heights of culture and civilisation; it lived with a noble, well-based, ample and vigorous order and freedom; it developed a great literature, sciences, arts, crafts, industries; it rose to the highest possible ideals and no mean practice of knowledge and culture, of arduous greatness and heroism, of kindness, philanthropy and human sympathy and oneness; it laid the inspired basis of wonderful spiritual philosophies; it examined the secrets of external nature and discovered and lived the boundless and miraculous truths of the inner being; it fathomed self and understood and possessed the world. As the civilisation grew in richness and complexity, it lost indeed the first grand simplicity of its early order. The intellect towered and widened, but intuition waned or retreated into the hearts of the saints and adepts and mystics. A greater stress came to be laid on scientific system, accuracy and order, not only in all the things of the life and mind, but even in the things of the spirit; the free flood of intuitive knowledge was forced to run in hewn channels. Society became more artificial and complex, less free and noble; more of a bond on the individual, it was less a field for the growth of his spiritual faculties. The old fine integral harmony gave place to an exaggerated stress on one or other of its elemental factors. <a id="_idIndexMarker077"></a>Artha and <a id="_idIndexMarker078"></a>kāma, interest and desire were in some directions developed at the expense of the <a id="_idIndexMarker079"></a>dharma. The lines of the dharma were filled and stamped in with so rigid a distinctness as to stand in the way of the freedom of the spirit. Spiritual liberation was pursued in hostility to life and not as its full-orbed result and high crowning. But still some strong basis of the old knowledge remained to inspire, to harmonise, to keep alive the soul of India. Even when deterioration came and a slow collapse, even when the life of the community degenerated into an uneasily petrified ignorance and confusion, the old spiritual aim and tradition remained to sweeten and humanise and save in its worst days the Indian peoples. For we see that it continually swept back on the race in new waves and high outbursts of life-giving energy or leaped up in intense kindlings of the spiritualised mind or heart, even as it now rises once more in all its strength to give the impulse of a great renascence.”7</p>
			<p class="commentary">‡ It is as if Sri Aurobindo has provided here, in this extract, a comprehensive view of the entire history of the <a id="_idIndexMarker080"></a>post-Vedic age of the Indian culture. It is on the basis of the systematic account given by him of the inner state of this culture during this period that we can better understand the rationale behind the forms it used for its expression, as well as the order in which they were expressed. Without this comprehensive view, one is lost in the multitude of historical events and knows not how to view and judge them. That is why even after having learnt of the whole course of the events of history – although without a deeper perspective even that is not truly possible – one is hardly able to put them together and get a feel for the vaster scheme underlying these seemingly incoherent events. The sense of the succinct and tacit account provided here by Sri Aurobindo becomes more and more apparent only when we approach it through a view based on the deeper truths of our being rather than a grossly materialistic surface view of existence. Then, without getting too perplexed by the outer appearances, we will be able to experience the deeper truth behind them. Also, when perceived through a deeper view, the whole course of evolution of this culture will appear to be a somewhat coordinated and systematic course of individual and collective development.</p>
			<p class="commentary">We have already discussed how the Indian culture had set before itself the great aim of self-realisation and self-fulfilment. The implementation of such an aim demands a system comprehensive and flexible enough to provide each individual with the necessary help and guidance according to the specific ‘swabhava’ of his soul (varna) and the outer stage of development of his life (ashram). A system that contradicts the fundamental nature of a person by ignoring his innate nature, ‘swabhava’, and thus giving rise to a conflict within him, cannot endure. And no firm and effective base can be built in such a state of conflict. Therefore, it is by keeping in view the inner and outer development of the whole being that the Rishis built that firm basis of ‘Varna-Ashram Dharma’ on which the Indian culture grew to its splendid richness.</p>
			<p class="commentary">There was no field of human endeavour, no aspect of life in which, due to its firm basis, this culture failed to achieve astonishing heights of opulence, splendour and magnificence. When we speak of a spiritual culture, generally the picture associated with it in the common mentality is that of an impoverished life of an ascetic who remains engrossed in some meditative state with little or no connection to normal activities of life. But true spirituality never really impoverishes life, rather, it is spirituality that gives life its true meaning and glory. Therefore, while this culture ‘filled the view with the last mountain prospect of a supreme spiritual elevation, it did not neglect the life of the levels. It lived between the busy life of the city and village, the freedom and seclusion of the forest and the last overarching illimitable ether.’ The <a id="_idIndexMarker081"></a>peculiarity of the Indian mind has been that it tries to get to the spiritual reality behind the surface appearance of each thing and then views and judges the thing in that light only. It is due to this turn of the Indian culture that it did not neglect any of the psychological, vital, emotional and physical parts of the individual and collective existence, but rather gave them their true meaning by turning them into means of a divine manifestation in this earthly existence. This is the whole effort of our entire epic and puranic literature. There we can see how even the hedonistic tendencies in man were not coerced, but while being kept under a higher law, they were allowed their just chance of expression and satisfaction, so that instead of remaining focused on and bound to them forever, a person could gradually move on to higher life-values. Therefore, the unparalleled achievements of this culture during that period in all the fields of human endeavour prove it beyond the possibility of any doubt that as opposed to this general impression that the Indian tendency has always been of abandoning active life and retiring to a forest, in actuality the tendency has been towards laying the spiritual foundation for the true enrichment of life in all possible respects. It is generally believed that away from the busy and clamorous external life and after having done away with all social ties, it is relatively easier in the seclusion of a forest to establish contact with the deeper parts of one’s being and dwell in one’s inner consciousness. It is because of this belief that we see people, troubled by the urban noise and the mental disquiet, taking recourse to secluded places. But the Indian culture not only took all the aspects of the busy life of a city and village in its purview – whether they be economic, social, administrative, educational or commercial, or related to healthcare, animal husbandry or even cooking – and laid down for them detailed dharmas, i.e. laws or canons, but effectively made them the means of self-realisation and self-expression. Thus, ‘moving firmly between life and death it saw beyond both and cut out a hundred high-roads to immortality.’ This is to say that no matter at what stage of one’s inner or outer development of individual existence one was, or what one’s swabhava or inherent nature was, one would always be helped by such systems developed by our seers to move swiftly towards the truth of one’s being. The peculiarity of this system was that it provided for each individual the way most suited to his nature and his immediate stage of evolution and avoided the error of imposing one single path or rule or canon for all. For, if there was only one fixed path for approaching the divine, that might, at best, have been of use for the few suited for that kind of path, but it could never have been universally applicable to all. Depending on the bent of one’s nature, whether it was predominantly dynamic, emotional or intellectual, the path most suited to one was indicated. It is for this reason that in India we come across various paths of devotion and knowledge, various philosophies, systems of yoga and tantra, and numerous other systems and practices. From among these if we consider just one of them, the <a id="_idIndexMarker082"></a>tantra, it is evident how masterfully it has dealt with even the vitalistic, emotional and hedonistic parts of our being – parts that are generally considered to be the most recalcitrant and unwilling to turn towards light – and has opened even for them very rich and novel ways of approaching the Divine. The uniqueness of this system is that it not only allows a person to approach the Divine through all possible attitudes – that of a disciple, of a slave, that of parental affection, of a beloved, or any other – and encourages him to establish a relationship with the divine through any possible means. Even the feeling of animosity towards the divine was not despised, rather we find in the Puranas examples of those, who, due to their intense enmity towards the divine, could attain a high status difficult even for a devotee to attain. One was free to follow the Shaiva, Shakta or Vaishnava cult or any other cult suited to the turn of one’s nature. Thus, this culture cut-out innumerable broad, as well as specific paths following which one could move towards the truth of one’s being. Here we should remember that for the Indian Rishis <a id="_idIndexMarker083"></a>immortality did not imply an infinite progression of life without <a id="_idIndexMarker084"></a>death but a state of consciousness beyond both, a state in which both were merely occasions in the soul’s journey.</p>
			<p class="commentary">‘It developed the external nature and drew it into the inner self; it enriched life to raise it into the spirit.’ The whole effort of this culture has been centred on cultivating the crude and unregenerate outer nature, refining it and making it civilised, awakening it to the deeper and subtler issues, drawing it into the inner self and enriching life so as to raise it into the spirit. This makes the whole terrestrial manifestation meaningful as all the parts of the being can participate in the joy of the divine manifestation here. The mainstream of Indian culture has always tried to give to life its true significance by allowing it its utmost chance of development in the light of the soul even though we do find a long tradition of <a id="_idIndexMarker085"></a>other-worldly tendency prevalent in this culture. Revealing the deep truth behind this other-worldly tendency Sri Aurobindo writes in his work, ‘The Life Divine’, “...this obstacle of the mind, life and body, – the heavy inertia and persistence of the body, the turbid passions of the life-part, the obscurity and doubting incertitudes, denials, other-formulations of the mind, – is an impediment so great and intolerable that the <a id="_idIndexMarker086"></a>spiritual urge becomes impatient and tries rigorously to quell these opponents, to reject the life, to mortify the body, to silence the mind and achieve its own separate salvation, spirit departing into pure spirit and rejecting from it altogether an undivine and obscure Nature. Apart from the supreme call, the natural push of the spiritual part in us to return to its own highest element and status, this aspect of vital and physical Nature as an impediment to pure spirituality is a compelling <a id="_idIndexMarker087"></a>reason for asceticism, for illusionism, for the tendency to other-worldliness, the urge towards withdrawal from life, the passion for a pure and unmixed Absolute. A pure spiritual absolutism is a movement of the self towards its own supreme selfhood, but it is also indispensable for Nature’s own purpose; for without it the mixture, the <a id="_idIndexMarker088"></a>downward gravitation would make the spiritual emergence impossible. The extremist of this absolutism, the solitary, the ascetic, is the standard-bearer of the spirit, his <a id="_idIndexMarker089"></a>ochre robe is its flag, the sign of a refusal of all compromise, – as indeed the struggle of emergence cannot end by a compromise, but only by an entire spiritual victory and the complete surrender of the lower nature. If that is impossible here, then indeed it must be achieved elsewhere; if Nature refuses submission to the emerging spirit, then the soul must withdraw from her. There is thus a dual tendency in the spiritual emergence, on one side a drive towards the establishment at all cost of the spiritual consciousness in the being, even to the rejection of Nature, on the other side a push towards the extension of spirituality to our parts of nature. But until the first is fully achieved, the second can only be imperfect and halting.” (CWSA 22, 891-92) It is this ascetic or the other-worldly turn and the escapist tendency born of the spirit’s urge for self-conquest which is popularly taken to be the whole of the Indian culture. But if actually this were so, then the magnificent and great achievements made by this culture in every possible sphere of life would not have been possible. When Sri Aurobindo says that ‘it enriched life to raise it into the spirit’, it must be noted that this enrichment of life was not, as is generally believed to be, for the self-satisfaction of the lower tendencies, rather to equip a person with novel means for an ever richer expression of the spirit. The whole system was geared to cultivating all the various parts of the being with the sole intention of making them fit instruments for the divine manifestation and capable of partaking in its joy. ‘Thus founded, thus trained, the ancient Indian race grew to astonishing heights..’ This is a fact evident enough in the Puranas, the epics and other ancient Indian literature. The account of the immediate system as well as that of the great and magnificent characters in it amply reveal the astonishing heights to which this culture grew not only in the field of the spirit but even in that of the outer life and these characters continue to inspire the whole culture to this day. Through the characters of Ramayana – such as Bharat, Lakshman, Sita, Hanuman, Vibhishan, Sugriva and numerous others – it is as though the human virtues had reached their ultimate heights. Moreover, these virtues were not confined to the elite class only, even the general public tended to abide by high standards of truthfulness, loyalty, straightforwardness, fidelity, heroism and numerous other such moral values and qualities. The Mahabharata also provides us a glimpse of the greatness of this civilisation and culture and also of those marvellous summits to which this culture arose. The modern mentality is to regard the great <a id="_idIndexMarker090"></a>epics as fanciful poetic creations with some historical content. But even if fanciful, firstly, such a grand and unparalleled flight of conception, where all the values of life – inner or outer – have been taken to their zenith, is nowhere else to be seen. Also, even the flight of imagination does not spring out of a previous void, but requires a firm ground of an intense inner development, refinement, and culture. Therefore, even to have such a sublime imagination is a sure sign of a supremely developed culture. Moreover, we hardly come across any other epic literature of the world that has infused life in the whole nation for millenniums and still continues to uplift and guide the whole race to some extent. Further, this culture ‘lived with a noble, well-based, ample and vigorous order and freedom.’ To establish some kind of effective organisation or system on the basis of rigorous outer regimentation and rules and regulations is one thing, as was in the case of the Roman culture, but a system noble, all-pervasive and vigorous and still inherently free can only be founded on the soul as has been done by the Indian culture. An outer freedom devoid of the soul’s guidance generally degenerates into the unbridled satisfaction of the lower appetites of the mind, life and body and without an inner discrimination an outer system or organisation, sooner or later, becomes mechanical and inflexible and is doomed to pass out. It is only in a spiritually advanced culture that vigorous order and complete freedom may walk hand in hand. </p>
			<p class="commentary">‘It (the Indian culture) developed a great literature, sciences, arts, crafts, industries’. It is in its <a id="_idIndexMarker091"></a>literature that we must seek for the most flexible and many-sided self-expression of a culture, for it is the word used in all its power of clear figure or its threads of suggestion that carries to us most subtly and variably the shades and turns and teeming significances of the inner self in its manifestation. In the words of Sri Aurobindo, “The greatness of a literature lies first in the greatness and worth of its substance, the value of its thought and the beauty of its forms, but also in the degree to which, satisfying the highest conditions of the art of speech, it avails to bring out and raise the soul and life or the living and the ideal mind of a people, an age, a culture, through the genius of some of its greatest or most sensitive representative spirits. And if we ask what in both these respects is the achievement of the Indian mind as it has come down to us in the Sanskrit and other literatures, we might surely say that here at least there is little room for any just depreciation and denial even by a mind the most disposed to quarrel with the effect on life and the character of the culture. The ancient and classical creations of the <a id="_idIndexMarker092"></a>Sanskrit tongue both in quality and in body and abundance of excellence, in their potent originality and force and beauty, in their substance and art and structure, in grandeur and justice and charm of speech and in the height and width of the reach of their spirit stand very evidently in the front rank among the world’s great literatures. The language itself, as has been universally recognised by those competent to form a judgment, is one of the most magnificent, the most perfect and wonderfully sufficient literary instruments developed by the human mind, at once majestic and sweet and flexible, strong and clearly-formed and full and vibrant and subtle, and its quality and character would be of itself a sufficient evidence of the character and quality of the race whose mind it expressed and the culture of which it was the reflecting medium.” (CWSA 20, 314-15)</p>
			<p class="commentary">We must remember that the colossal <a id="_idIndexMarker093"></a>Indian literature that as yet we have been able to deal with is only a fraction of what is still lying extant and what is extant is only a small percentage of what was once written and known because most of it has been either destroyed by the invaders or has perished over time due to the lack of modern facilities of printing. According to historians, the Nalanda university was attacked thrice. After being attacked by Huns and Gauds, it was finally ransacked and destroyed by the army of Bakhtiyar Khilji. A sense of the vastness of the library should impress itself on the reader by the fact that it took the army months to burn down all the books and manuscripts. The huge library of Alexandria, once a vast repository of works of ancient art, literature, philosophy and science, too is recorded to have met with the same fate at the hands of Islamic hordes. These examples are not exceptions, for we find a record of innumerable such instances at other places in India during the Muslim rule. ‡</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
