<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-252</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_2_-withoutred-_-_FinalforPress-252" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-252" class="SubHead1">Relations between Parents and Children</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“There are many kinds of truth and in the Shastra you will find all kinds, some seeming in conflict with others. Service to parents is part of family and <a id="_idIndexMarker860"></a><span class="Index">social duty</span>. It has nothing to do in itself with Yoga. Yoga is truth not of family or society, but of spiritual life, and in spiritual life the seeking for the Divine takes precedence of everything.</p>
			<p class="body-text">If we ask you to remain still with your father and mother, it is not from the point of view of Truth, but of charity. Four of their children have already left them to come to the Asram; it would be too hard a blow if you also left them now. As you have remained with them so long, you might remain a little longer. Even while in the family, you can prepare yourself for the spiritual life, by remembering the Divine in all you do and by doing it as a sacrifice for the sake of the Divine.</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">*</p>
			<p class="body-text">It [a child’s debt to his parents] is a law of human society, not a law of Karma. The child did not ask the father to bring him into the world – and if the father has done it for his own pleasure, it is the least he can do to bring up the child. All these are social relations (and it is not at all a one-sided debt of the child to the father, either), but whatever they are, they cease once one takes to the spiritual life. For the spiritual life does not at all rest on the external physical relations; it is the Divine alone with whom one has then to do.</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">*</p>
			<p class="body-text">The <a id="_idIndexMarker861"></a>attachment to parents belongs to the ordinary physical nature – it has nothing to do with Divine Love.” (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">293</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
