<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-330</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_2_-withoutred-_-_FinalforPress-330" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-330" class="SubHead1">A Mighty Transformation That Aswapati Undergoes</h2>
			<p class="savitri-text">“All Nature’s recondite spaces were stripped bare,<br />All her dim crypts and corners searched with fire<br />Where refugee instincts and unshaped revolts<br />Could shelter find in darkness’ sanctuary<br />Against the white purity of heaven’s cleansing flame.<br />All seemed to have perished that was undivine:<br />Yet some minutest dissident might escape<br />And still a centre lurk of the blind force.<br />For the Inconscient too is infinite;<br />The more its abysses we insist to sound,<br />The more it stretches, stretches endlessly.<br />Then lest a human cry should spoil the Truth<br />He tore desire up from its bleeding roots<br />And offered to the gods the vacant place.<br />Thus could he bear the touch immaculate.<br />A last and mightiest transformation came.<br />His soul was all in front like a great sea<br />Flooding the mind and body with its waves;<br />His being, spread to embrace the universe,<br />United the within and the without<br />To make of life a cosmic harmony,<br />An empire of the immanent Divine.<br />In this tremendous universality<br />Not only his soul-nature and mind-sense<br />Included every soul and mind in his,<br />But even the life of flesh and nerve was changed<br />And grew one flesh and nerve with all that lives;<br />He felt the joy of others as his joy,<br />He bore the grief of others as his grief;<br />His universal sympathy upbore,<br />Immense like ocean, the creation’s load<br />As earth upbears all beings’ sacrifice,<br />Thrilled with the hidden Transcendent’s joy and peace.<br />There was no more division’s endless scroll;<br />One grew the Spirit’s secret unity,<br />All Nature felt again the single bliss.<br />There was no cleavage between soul and soul,<br />There was no barrier between world and God.<br />Overpowered were form and memory’s limiting line;<br />The covering mind was seized and torn apart;<br />It was dissolved and now no more could be,<br />The one Consciousness that made the world was seen;<br />All now was luminosity and force.<br />Abolished in its last thin fainting trace<br />The circle of the little self was gone;<br />The separate being could no more be felt;<br />It disappeared and knew itself no more,<br />Lost in the spirit’s wide identity.<br />His nature grew a movement of the All,<br />Exploring itself to find that all was He,<br />His soul was a delegation of the All<br />That turned from itself to join the one Supreme.<br />Transcended was the human formula;<br />Man’s heart that had obscured the Inviolable<br />Assumed the mighty beating of a god’s;<br />His seeking mind ceased in the Truth that knows;<br />His life was a flow of the universal life.<br />He stood fulfilled on the world’s highest line<br />Awaiting the ascent beyond the world,<br />Awaiting the descent the world to save.<br />...........<br />The robes of mortal thinking were cast down<br />Leaving his knowledge bare to absolute sight;<br />Fate’s driving ceased and Nature’s sleepless spur:<br />The athlete heavings of the will were stilled<br />In the Omnipotent’s unmoving peace.<br />Life in his members lay down vast and mute;<br />Naked, unwalled, unterrified it bore<br />The immense regard of Immortality.<br />...........<br />Above the imperfect reach of word and thought,<br />Beyond the sight that seeks support of form,<br />Lost in deep tracts of superconscient Light,<br />Or voyaging in blank featureless Nothingness,<br />Sole in the trackless Incommensurable,<br />Or past not-self and self and selflessness,<br />Transgressing the dream-shores of conscious mind<br />He reached at last his sempiternal base.” (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">318</span>-<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">20</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
