<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-366</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_2_-withoutred-_-_FinalforPress-366" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-366" class="SubHead1">Death’s Resistance to the Command and His Defeat</h2>
			<p class="savitri-text">“She spoke; Death unconvinced resisted still,<br />Although he knew refusing still to know,<br />Although he saw refusing still to see.<br />Unshakable he stood claiming his right.<br />His spirit bowed; his will obeyed the law<br />Of its own nature binding even on Gods.<br />The Two opposed each other face to face.<br />His being like a huge fort of darkness towered;<br />Around it her light grew, an ocean’s siege.<br />Awhile the Shade survived defying heaven:<br />Assailing in front, oppressing from above,<br />A concrete mass of conscious power, he bore<br />The tyranny of her divine desire.<br />A pressure of intolerable force<br />Weighed on his unbowed head and stubborn breast;<br />Light like a burning tongue licked up his thoughts,<br />Light was a luminous torture in his heart,<br />Light coursed, a splendid agony, through his nerves;<br />His darkness muttered perishing in her blaze.<br />Her mastering Word commanded every limb<br />And left no room for his enormous will<br />That seemed pushed out into some helpless space<br />And could no more re-enter but left him void.<br />He called to Night but she fell shuddering back,<br />He called to Hell but sullenly it retired:<br />He turned to the Inconscient for support,<br />From which he was born, his vast sustaining self;<br />It drew him back towards boundless vacancy<br />As if by himself to swallow up himself:<br />He called to his strength, but it refused his call.<br />His body was eaten by light, his spirit devoured.<br />At last he knew defeat inevitable<br />And left crumbling the shape that he had worn,<br />Abandoning hope to make man’s soul his prey<br />And force to be mortal the immortal spirit.<br />Afar he fled shunning her dreaded touch<br />And refuge took in the retreating Night.<br />In the dream twilight of that symbol world<br />The dire universal Shadow disappeared<br />Vanishing into the Void from which it came.<br />As if deprived of its original cause,<br />The twilight realm passed fading from their souls,<br />And Satyavan and Savitri were alone.<br />But neither stirred: between those figures rose<br />A mute invisible and translucent wall.<br />In the long blank moment’s pause nothing could move:<br />All waited on the unknown inscrutable Will.” (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">666</span>-<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">68</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
