<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-399</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_2_-withoutred-_-_FinalforPress-399" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-399" class="SubHead1">The Working of the <a id="_idIndexMarker1063"></a><span class="Index">Therapeutic Force</span></h2>
			<p class="questions">“The Divine Grace has certainly done something. I [the <a id="_idIndexMarker1064"></a><span class="Index">Ashram doctor</span>] acted according to your advice, and X felt better the whole day.</p>
			<p class="body-text">It was not the <a id="_idIndexMarker1065"></a><span class="Index">Divine Grace</span> but the <a id="_idIndexMarker1066"></a><span class="Index">Divine Force</span>. If it had been the Grace, it would simply have said rFkkLrq [tathāstu] and the thing would be done. As it is, last night I had to work a damned lot for this result – I only hope it will last and complete itself.” <span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">30</span> January <span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">1935</span> </p>
			<p class="star-single-center">*</p>
			<p class="questions">But may I ask you why you are wasting such a lot of Force when a word could do the job? Why not cut short our labour and the patients’ discomfort by saying rFkkLrq? Is it as easily done as it is said? If working “a damned lot” reduces the temperature only by one degree and that too for <span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-4">12</span> hours or less, what am I to think?</p>
			<p class="body-text">I did not expect you to take my rFkkLrq with such grim seriousness. Speaking semi-seriously, I am not here to do miracles to order, but to try to get in a new consciousness somewhere in the world – which is itself however to attempt a miracle. If physical miracles happen to tumble in in the process, well and good, but you can’t present your medical pistol in my face and call on me to stand and deliver. As for the Force, application of my force, short of the supramental, means always a struggle of forces and the success depends on (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">1</span>) the strength and persistency of the force put out, (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">2</span>) the receptivity of the subject, (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">3</span>) the sanction of the Unmentionable – I beg your pardon, I meant the Unnameable, Ineffable, Unknowable. X’s physical consciousness is rather obstinate, as you have noticed, and therefore not too receptive. It may feel the Mother inside it, but to obey her will or force is less habitual for it. <span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">31</span> January <span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">1935</span></p>
			<p class="star-single-center">*</p>
			<p class="questions">I still can’t understand why you should bother to follow us doctors. The Divine can very easily act from the supramental consciousness directly; you don’t really need a diagnosis given by ordinary men!</p>
			<p class="body-text">If things were like that, why the deuce should we have Doctors or a dispensary at all? And what would have been the use of your <span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">20</span>,<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">000</span>?<span id="footnote-031-backlink"><a class="_idFootnoteLink _idGenColorInherit" href="CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-399.xhtml#footnote-031">[2]</a></span> We don’t propose to do the whole business of the inside and outside off our own bat. You are as necessary for this as X for the building or others for their work. </p>
			<p class="questions">Another thing – why should a mental formation obstruct the supramental?</p>
			<p class="body-text">Who told you we are acting from supramental consciousness? We are not and cannot until the confounded quarrel with Matter is settled. <span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">1</span> February <span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">1935</span></p>
			<p class="star-single-center">*</p>
			<p class="questions">What is this “confounded quarrel with Matter” you mention? Does this refer to the lower vital and physical movements of the sadhaks?</p>
			<p class="body-text">I am not speaking of the sadhaks, but the resistance of the Earth nature itself in its material parts. But these are things you people cannot understand unless you have less childlike notions about things.</p>
			<p class="body-text">I am still wondering why there should be doctors and a dispensary at all! Isn’t it a paradox – the Divine sending his disciples to the human physician?</p>
			<p class="body-text">Rubbish! This is a world of the play of forces, sir, and the Doctor is a force. So why should not the Divine use him? Have you realised that if the Divine did everything, there would be no world, only a show of marionettes?” <span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">2</span> February <span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">1935</span> (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">498</span>-<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">500</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“As for the Force, I shall write some other time. I have told you that it is not always efficacious, but works under conditions like all forces; it is only the supramental Force that works absolutely, because it creates its own conditions. But the Force I am using is a Force that has to work under the present world conditions. It is not the less a Force for that. I have cured myself of all <a id="_idIndexMarker1067"></a><span class="Index">illnesses</span> except three by it and those too when they come I have kept in check; the fact that I have not succeeded yet in eliminating the fact or probability of those three does not cancel the fact of my success with the others. As for the Mother, she used formerly to cure everything at once by the same Power – now she has no time to think about her body or to concentrate on it. Even so when she makes a certain inner concentration she can see, read etc. perfectly well without glasses, but she has no time to work out the possibility which that shows. The prevalence of illness just now is a fact; it is part of the struggle that is going on in the domain of Matter. But even so there are plenty of people in the Asram who get rid of their ills by reliance on the Mother. If all cannot do it, what does that prove or disprove? It only proves that the Power does not work absolutely, miraculously, impossibly, but it works by certain given means and under conditions. I have always said that, so what is there in that that is new or that annihilates the truth of the Yoga?” <span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">6</span> February <span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">1935</span> (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">500</span>-<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">01</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“I have not yet written about the <a id="_idIndexMarker1068"></a><span class="Index">Force</span> because it is too complex to be adequately stated in a short space and I had no time these days for anything long. Anyhow, the clue is that the Force does not act in a void and in an absolute way, like a writing on a blank paper or in the air, the “Let there be light and there was light” formula. It comes as a Force intervening and acting on a very complex nexus of forces that were in action and displacing their disposition and interrelated movement and natural result by a new disposition, movement and result. It meets in so doing a certain opposition, very often a strong opposition from many of the forces already in possession and operation. To overcome it three factors are needed, the power of the Force itself, i.e. its own sheer pressure and direct action on the field of action (here the man, his condition, his body), the instrument (yourself) and the instrumentation (treatment, medicine). I have often used the Force alone without any human instrument or outer means, but here all depends on the recipient and his receptivity – unless as in the case of many <a id="_idIndexMarker1069"></a><span class="Index">healers</span> there are unseen beings or powers that assist. If there is an instrument in direct touch with the patient, whether the doctor or one who can canalise the force, then the action is immensely assisted, – how much depends on the instrument, his faith, his energy, his conveying power. Where there is a violent opposition, this is frequently not enough or at least not enough for a rapid or total effect, the instrumentation (treatment or medicine) is needed. It is especially where the resistance of the body or the forces acting on the body-consciousness is strong that the medicine comes in as an aid. But if the doctor is non-psychic or the medicine the wrong one or the treatment unplastic, then they become an added resistance which the Force has to overcome. This is a very summary and inadequate statement, but it gives the main points, I believe.</p>
			<p class="body-text">P.S. I forgot to say that the surroundings, especially the people around the patient, the atmosphere, the suggestions it carries or they give to him, are often of a considerable importance.” <span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">24</span> January <span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">1936</span> (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">503</span>-<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">04</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="questions">“... In several recent cases you have insisted on knowing this or that about the patient’s condition. But what is the need of your knowing these things? Is not Yogic vision more powerful and accurate than our external optical capacities?</p>
			<p class="body-text">As for me, I have no medico in me, not even a latent medico. If I had, I would not need an external one but diagnose, prescribe and cure all by my solitary self. My role in a medical case is to use the force either with or without medicines. There are three ways of doing that – one by putting the Force without knowing or caring what the illness is or following the symptoms – that however needs either the mental collaboration or quiescence of the victim. The second is symptomatic, to follow the symptoms and act on them even if one is not sure of the disease. There an accurate report is very useful. The third needs a diagnosis – that is usually where the anti-forces are very strong and conscious or where the patient himself answers strongly to the suggestions of the illness and unwittingly resists the action of the Force. This last is usually indicated by the fact that the thing gets cured and comes back again or improves and swings back again to worse. It is especially the great difficulty in cases of insanity and the like. Also in things where the nerves have a say – but in ordinary illnesses too.” <span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">1</span> April <span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">1935</span> (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">505</span>)</p>
			<hr class="HorizontalRule-1" />
			<div class="_idFootnotes">
				<div id="footnote-031" class="_idFootnote" epub:type="footnote">
					<p class="footnote"><a class="_idFootnoteAnchor _idGenColorInherit" href="CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-399.xhtml#footnote-031-backlink">[2]</a> The amount (in rupees) paid by the correspondent for his medical education. – Ed.</p>
				</div>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
