<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-348</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_2_-withoutred-_-_FinalforPress-348" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-348" class="SubHead1">Savitri Charged with Earth’s Destiny</h2>
			<p class="savitri-text">“Queen, strive no more to change the secret will;<br />Time’s accidents are steps in its vast scheme.<br />Bring not thy brief and helpless human tears<br />Across the fathomless moments of a heart<br />That knows its single will and God’s as one:<br />It can embrace its hostile destiny;<br />It sits apart with grief and facing death,<br />Affronting adverse fate armed and alone.<br />In this enormous world standing apart<br />In the mightiness of her silent spirit’s will,<br />In the passion of her soul of sacrifice<br />Her lonely strength facing the universe,<br />Affronting fate, asks not man’s help nor god’s:<br />Sometimes one life is charged with earth’s destiny,<br />It cries not for succour from the time-bound powers.<br />Alone she is equal to her mighty task.<br />Intervene not in a strife too great for thee,<br />A struggle too deep for mortal thought to sound,<br />Its question to this Nature’s rigid bounds<br />When the soul fronts nude of garbs the infinite,<br />Its too vast theme of a lonely mortal will<br />Pacing the silence of eternity.<br />As a star, uncompanioned, moves in heaven<br />Unastonished by the immensities of Space,<br />Travelling infinity by its own light,<br />The great are strongest when they stand alone.<br />A God-given might of being is their force,<br />A ray from self’s solitude of light the guide;<br />The soul that can live alone with itself meets God;<br />Its lonely universe is their rendezvous.<br />A day may come when she must stand unhelped<br />On a dangerous brink of the world’s doom and hers,<br />Carrying the world’s future on her lonely breast,<br />Carrying the human hope in a heart left sole<br />To conquer or fail on a last desperate verge,<br />Alone with death and close to extinction’s edge.<br />Her single greatness in that last dire scene<br />Must cross alone a perilous bridge in Time<br />And reach an apex of world-destiny<br />Where all is won or all is lost for man.<br />In that tremendous silence lone and lost<br />Of a deciding hour in the world’s fate,<br />In her soul’s climbing beyond mortal time<br />When she stands sole with Death or sole with God<br />Apart upon a silent desperate brink,<br />Alone with her self and death and destiny<br />As on some verge between Time and Timelessness<br />When being must end or life rebuild its base,<br />Alone she must conquer or alone must fall.<br />No human aid can reach her in that hour,<br />No armoured god stand shining at her side.<br />Cry not to heaven, for she alone can save.<br />For this the silent Force came missioned down;<br />In her the conscious Will took human shape:<br />She only can save herself and save the world.<br />O queen, stand back from that stupendous scene,<br />Come not between her and her hour of Fate.<br />Her hour must come and none can intervene:<br />Think not to turn her from her heaven-sent task,<br />Strive not to save her from her own high will.<br />Thou hast no place in that tremendous strife;<br />Thy love and longing are not arbiters there;<br />Leave the world’s fate and her to God’s sole guard.<br />Even if he seems to leave her to her lone strength,<br />Even though all falters and falls and sees an end<br />And the heart fails and only are death and night,<br />God-given her strength can battle against doom<br />Even on a brink where Death alone seems close<br />And no human strength can hinder or can help.<br />Think not to intercede with the hidden Will,<br />Intrude not twixt her spirit and its force<br />But leave her to her mighty self and Fate.” (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">460</span>-<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">62</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
