<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-371</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_2_-withoutred-_-_FinalforPress-371" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-371" class="SubHead1">The Godhead Speaks of the <a id="_idIndexMarker1028"></a><span class="Index">Future of the Earth</span> – How Shall the Earth Open to Divinity</h2>
			<p class="savitri-text">“Descend to life with him thy heart desires.<br />O Satyavan, O luminous Savitri,<br />I sent you forth of old beneath the stars,<br />A dual power of God in an ignorant world,<br />In a hedged creation shut from limitless self,<br />Bringing down God to the insentient globe,<br />Lifting earth-beings to immortality.<br />...........<br />You shall be born into man’s dubious hours<br />In forms that hide the soul’s divinity<br />And show through veils of the earth’s doubting air<br />My glory breaking as through clouds a sun,<br />Or burning like a rare and inward fire,<br />And with my nameless influence fill men’s lives.<br />Yet shall they look up as to peaks of God<br />And feel God like a circumambient air<br />And rest on God as on a motionless base.<br />Yet shall there glow on mind like a horned moon<br />The Spirit’s crescent splendour in pale skies<br />And light man’s life upon his Godward road.<br />But more there is concealed in God’s Beyond<br />That shall one day reveal its hidden face.<br />...........<br />You shall reveal to them the hidden eternities,<br />The breath of infinitudes not yet revealed,<br />Some rapture of the bliss that made the world,<br />Some rush of the force of God’s omnipotence,<br />Some beam of the omniscient Mystery.<br />But when the hour of the Divine draws near<br />The Mighty Mother shall take birth in Time<br />And God be born into the human clay<br />In forms made ready by your human lives.<br />Then shall the Truth supreme be given to men:<br />There is a being beyond the being of mind,<br />An Immeasurable cast into many forms,<br />A miracle of the multitudinous One,<br />There is a consciousness mind cannot touch,<br />Its speech cannot utter nor its thought reveal.<br />It has no home on earth, no centre in man,<br />Yet is the source of all things thought and done,<br />The fount of the creation and its works,<br />It is the origin of all truth here,<br />The sun-orb of mind’s fragmentary rays,<br />Infinity’s heaven that spills the rain of God,<br />The Immense that calls to man to expand the Spirit,<br />The wide Aim that justifies his narrow attempts,<br />A channel for the little he tastes of bliss.<br />Some shall be made the glory’s receptacles<br />And vehicles of the Eternal’s luminous power.<br />These are the high forerunners, the heads of Time,<br />The great deliverers of earth-bound mind,<br />The high transfigurers of human clay,<br />The first-born of a new supernal race.<br />The incarnate dual Power shall open God’s door,<br />Eternal supermind touch earthly Time.<br />The superman shall wake in mortal man<br />And manifest the hidden demigod<br />Or grow into the God-Light and God-Force<br />Revealing the secret deity in the cave.<br />Then shall the earth be touched by the Supreme,<br />His bright unveiled Transcendence shall illumine<br />The mind and heart and force the life and act<br />To interpret his inexpressible mystery<br />In a heavenly alphabet of Divinity’s signs.<br />His living cosmic spirit shall enring,<br />Annulling the decree of death and pain,<br />Erasing the formulas of the Ignorance,<br />With the deep meaning of beauty and life’s hid sense,<br />The being ready for immortality,<br />His regard crossing infinity’s mystic waves<br />Bring back to Nature her early joy to live,<br />The metred heart-beats of a lost delight,<br />The cry of a forgotten ecstasy,<br />The dance of the first world-creating Bliss.<br />The Immanent shall be the witness God<br />Watching on his many-petalled lotus-throne<br />His actionless being and his silent might<br />Ruling earth-nature by eternity’s law,<br />A thinker waking the Inconscient’s world,<br />An immobile centre of many infinitudes<br />In his thousand-pillared temple by Time’s sea.<br />Then shall the embodied being live as one<br />Who is a thought, a will of the Divine,<br />A mask or robe of his divinity,<br />An instrument and partner of his Force,<br />A point or line drawn in the infinite,<br />A manifest of the Imperishable.<br />The supermind shall be his nature’s fount,<br />The Eternal’s truth shall mould his thoughts and acts,<br />The Eternal’s truth shall be his light and guide.<br />All then shall change, a magic order come<br />Overtopping this mechanical universe.<br />A mightier race shall inhabit the mortal’s world.<br />On Nature’s luminous tops, on the Spirit’s ground,<br />The superman shall reign as king of life,<br />Make earth almost the mate and peer of heaven,<br />And lead towards God and truth man’s ignorant heart<br />And lift towards godhead his mortality.<br />A power released from circumscribing bounds,<br />Its height pushed up beyond death’s hungry reach,<br />Life’s tops shall flame with the Immortal’s thoughts,<br />Light shall invade the darkness of its base.<br />Then in the process of evolving Time<br />All shall be drawn into a single plan,<br />A divine harmony shall be earth’s law,<br />Beauty and joy remould her way to live:<br />Even the body shall remember God,<br />Nature shall draw back from mortality<br />And Spirit’s fires shall guide the earth’s blind force;<br />Knowledge shall bring into the aspirant Thought<br />A high proximity to Truth and God.<br />The supermind shall claim the world for Light<br />And thrill with love of God the enamoured heart<br />And place Light’s crown on Nature’s lifted head<br />And found Light’s reign on her unshaking base.<br />A greater truth than earth’s shall roof-in earth<br />And shed its sunlight on the roads of mind;<br />A power infallible shall lead the thought,<br />A seeing Puissance govern life and act,<br />In earthly hearts kindle the Immortal’s fire.<br />A soul shall wake in the Inconscient’s house;<br />The mind shall be God-vision’s tabernacle,<br />The body intuition’s instrument,<br />And life a channel for God’s visible power.<br />All earth shall be the Spirit’s manifest home,<br />Hidden no more by the body and the life,<br />Hidden no more by the mind’s ignorance;<br />An unerring Hand shall shape event and act.<br />The Spirit’s eyes shall look through Nature’s eyes,<br />The Spirit’s force shall occupy Nature’s force.<br />This world shall be God’s visible garden-house,<br />The earth shall be a field and camp of God,<br />Man shall forget consent to mortality<br />And his embodied frail impermanence.<br />This universe shall unseal its occult sense,<br />Creation’s process change its antique front,<br />An ignorant evolution’s hierarchy<br />Release the Wisdom chained below its base.<br />The Spirit shall be the master of his world<br />Lurking no more in form’s obscurity<br />And Nature shall reverse her action’s rule,<br />The outward world disclose the Truth it veils;<br />All things shall manifest the covert God,<br />All shall reveal the Spirit’s light and might<br />And move to its destiny of felicity.<br />Even should a hostile force cling to its reign<br />And claim its right’s perpetual sovereignty<br />And man refuse his high spiritual fate,<br />Yet shall the secret Truth in things prevail.<br />For in the march of all-fulfilling Time<br />The hour must come of the Transcendent’s will:<br />All turns and winds towards his predestined ends<br />In Nature’s fixed inevitable course<br />Decreed since the beginning of the worlds<br />In the deep essence of created things:<br />Even there shall come as a high crown of all<br />The end of Death, the death of Ignorance.<br />But first high Truth must set her feet on earth<br />And man aspire to the Eternal’s light<br />And all his members feel the Spirit’s touch<br />And all his life obey an inner Force.<br />This too shall be; for a new life shall come,<br />A body of the Superconscient’s truth,<br />A native field of Supernature’s mights:<br />It shall make earth’s nescient ground Truth’s colony,<br />Make even the Ignorance a transparent robe<br />Through which shall shine the brilliant limbs of Truth<br />And Truth shall be a sun on Nature’s head<br />And Truth shall be the guide of Nature’s steps<br />And Truth shall gaze out of her nether deeps.<br />When superman is born as Nature’s king<br />His presence shall transfigure Matter’s world:<br />He shall light up Truth’s fire in Nature’s night,<br />He shall lay upon the earth Truth’s greater law;<br />Man too shall turn towards the Spirit’s call.<br />Awake to his hidden possibility,<br />Awake to all that slept within his heart<br />And all that Nature meant when earth was formed<br />And the Spirit made this ignorant world his home,<br />He shall aspire to Truth and God and Bliss.<br />Interpreter of a diviner law<br />And instrument of a supreme design,<br />The higher kind shall lean to lift up man.<br />Man shall desire to climb to his own heights.<br />The truth above shall wake a nether truth,<br />Even the dumb earth become a sentient force.<br />The Spirit’s tops and Nature’s base shall draw<br />Near to the secret of their separate truth<br />And know each other as one deity.<br />The Spirit shall look out through Matter’s gaze<br />And Matter shall reveal the Spirit’s face.<br />Then man and superman shall be at one<br />And all the earth become a single life.<br />Even the multitude shall hear the Voice<br />And turn to commune with the Spirit within<br />And strive to obey the high spiritual law:<br />This earth shall stir with impulses sublime,<br />Humanity awake to deepest self,<br />Nature the hidden godhead recognise.<br />Even the many shall some answer make<br />And bear the splendour of the Divine’s rush<br />And his impetuous knock at unseen doors.<br />A heavenlier passion shall upheave men’s lives,<br />Their mind shall share in the ineffable gleam,<br />Their heart shall feel the ecstasy and the fire.<br />Earth’s bodies shall be conscious of a soul;<br />Mortality’s bondslaves shall unloose their bonds,<br />Mere men into spiritual beings grow<br />And see awake the dumb divinity.<br />Intuitive beams shall touch the nature’s peaks,<br />A revelation stir the nature’s depths;</p>
			<p class="savitri-text">The Truth shall be the leader of their lives,<br />Truth shall dictate their thought and speech and act,<br />They shall feel themselves lifted nearer to the sky,<br />As if a little lower than the gods.<br />For knowledge shall pour down in radiant streams<br />And even darkened mind quiver with new life<br />And kindle and burn with the Ideal’s fire<br />And turn to escape from mortal ignorance.<br />The frontiers of the Ignorance shall recede,<br />More and more souls shall enter into light,<br />Minds lit, inspired, the occult summoner hear<br />And lives blaze with a sudden inner flame<br />And hearts grow enamoured of divine delight<br />And human wills tune to the divine will,<br />These separate selves the Spirit’s oneness feel,<br />These senses of heavenly sense grow capable,<br />The flesh and nerves of a strange ethereal joy<br />And mortal bodies of immortality.<br />A divine force shall flow through tissue and cell<br />And take the charge of breath and speech and act<br />And all the thoughts shall be a glow of suns<br />And every feeling a celestial thrill.<br />Often a lustrous inner dawn shall come<br />Lighting the chambers of the slumbering mind;<br />A sudden bliss shall run through every limb<br />And Nature with a mightier Presence fill.<br />Thus shall the earth open to divinity<br />And common natures feel the wide uplift,<br />Illumine common acts with the Spirit’s ray<br />And meet the deity in common things.<br />Nature shall live to manifest secret God,<br />The Spirit shall take up the human play,<br />This earthly life become the life divine.” (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">702</span>-<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">10</span>)</p>
		</div>
		<div class="_idGenObjectLayout-1">
			<div id="_idContainer032">
			</div>
		</div>
		<div id="_idContainer033" class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<p class="Headline">Volume 35<br />Letters on Himself and the Ashram</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
