<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-404</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_2_-withoutred-_-_FinalforPress-404" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-404" class="SubHead1">How Things Worked in <a id="_idIndexMarker1074"></a><span class="Index">Sri Aurobindo Ashram</span></h2>
			<p class="body-text">“What seems to me of more importance is to try to explain how things are worked out here. Indeed very few are the people who understand it and still fewer those who realise it.</p>
			<p class="body-text">There has never been, at any time, a mental plan, a fixed programme or an organisation decided beforehand. The whole thing has taken birth, grown and developed as a living being by a movement of consciousness (Chit-tapas) constantly maintained, increased and fortified. As the Conscious Force descends in matter and radiates, it seeks for fit instruments to express and manifest it. It goes without saying that the more the instrument is open, receptive and plastic, the better are the results. The two obstacles that stand in the way of a smooth and harmonious working in and through the sadhaks are:</p>
			<p class="body-text">(<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">1</span>) the preconceived ideas and mental constructions which block the way to the influence and the working of the conscious force;</p>
			<p class="body-text">(<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">2</span>) the preferences and impulses of the vital which distort and falsify the expression.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Both these things are the natural output of the ego. Without the interference of these two elements my physical intervention would not be necessary.</p>
			<p class="body-text">You are quite right when you do not believe in “Mother likes”, “Mother dislikes”: it is quite a childish interpretation. </p>
			<p class="body-text">There is a clear precise perception of the Force and the Consciousness at work, and whenever this Force gets distorted or the Consciousness is obscured in its action, I have to interfere and rectify the movement. In most cases things are mixed up and there again I have to intervene to separate the distorted transcription from the pure one.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Otherwise a great freedom of action is left to all, because the Conscious Force can express itself in innumerable ways and for the perfection and integrality of the manifestation no ways are to be a priori excluded; a trial is very often given before the selection is made.” <span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">22</span> August <span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">1939</span> (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">676</span>-<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">77</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
