<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-243</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_2_-withoutred-_-_FinalforPress-243" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-243" class="SubHead1">Inner Life and the <a id="_idIndexMarker838"></a>Control of Speech</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“The psychic <a id="_idIndexMarker839"></a><span class="Index">self-control</span> that is desirable in these surroundings and in the midst of discussion would mean among other things:</p>
			<p class="body-text">(<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">1</span>) Not to allow the impulse of speech to assert itself too much or say anything without reflection, but to speak always with a conscious control and only what is necessary and helpful.</p>
			<p class="body-text">(<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">2</span>) To avoid all debate, dispute or too animated discussion and simply say what has to be said and leave it there. There should also be no insistence that you are right and the others wrong, but what is said should only be thrown in as a contribution to the consideration of the truth of the matter. I notice that what you report X as having said in this discussion had its truth and what you said was also true, so that really there should have been no dispute.</p>
			<p class="body-text">(<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">3</span>) To keep the tone of speech and the wording very quiet and calm and uninsistent.</p>
			<p class="body-text">(<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">4</span>) Not to mind at all if others are heated and dispute, but remain quiet and undisturbed and yourself speak only what can help things to be smooth again.</p>
			<p class="body-text">(<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">5</span>) If there is <a id="_idIndexMarker840"></a><span class="Index">gossip</span> about others and harsh criticism (especially about sadhaks), not to join – for these things are helpful in no way and only lower the consciousness from its higher level.</p>
			<p class="body-text">(<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">6</span>) To avoid all that would hurt or wound others.” (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">87</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“In the first place, there is a great difference between uttering as truth what one believes or knows to be false and uttering as truth what one conscientiously believes to be true, but is not in fact true. The first is obviously going against the spirit of truth, the second does homage to it. The first is deliberate falsehood, the second is only error at worst or ignorance.</p>
			<p class="body-text">This is from the practical point of view of truth-speaking. From the point of view of the higher Truth, it must not be forgotten that each plane of consciousness has its own standard – what is truth to the mind, may be only partial truth to a higher consciousness, but it is through the partial truth that the mind has to go in order to reach the wider more perfect truth beyond. All that is necessary for it is to be open and plastic, to be ready to recognise the higher when it comes, not to cling to the lower because it is its own, not to allow the desires and passions of the vital to blind it to the Light or to twist and pervert things. When once the higher consciousness begins to act, the difficulty diminishes and there is a clear progress from truth to greater truth.” (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">90</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
