<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-395</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_2_-withoutred-_-_FinalforPress-395" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-395" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idIndexMarker1055"></a><a id="_idIndexMarker1056"></a><span class="Index">Sri Krishna</span> and <a id="_idIndexMarker1057"></a><span class="Index">Sri Aurobindo</span></h2>
			<p class="body-text">“I thought I had already told you that your turn towards Krishna was not an obstacle. In any case I affirm that positively in answer to your question. If we consider the large and indeed predominant part he played in my own sadhana, it would be strange if the part he has in your sadhana could be considered objectionable. Sectarianism is a matter of dogma, ritual etc., not of spiritual experience; the concentration on Krishna is a self-offering to the iṣṭa-deva. If you reach Krishna you reach the Divine; if you can give yourself to him, you give yourself to me. Your inability to identify may be because you are laying too much stress on the physical aspects, consciously or unconsciously.” <span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">18</span> June <span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">1943</span> (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">431</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“You can’t expect me to argue about my own spiritual greatness in comparison with Krishna’s. The question itself would be relevant only if there were two sectarian religions in opposition, Aurobindoism and Vaishnavism, each insisting on its own God’s greatness. That is not the case. And then what Krishna must I challenge, – the Krishna of the Gita who is the transcendent Godhead, Paramatma, Parabrahma, Purushottama, the cosmic Deity, master of the universe, Vasudeva who is all, the immanent in the heart of all creatures, or the Godhead who was incarnate at Brindavan and Dwarka and Kurukshetra and who was the guide of my Yoga and with whom I realised identity? All that is not to me something philosophical or mental but a matter of daily and hourly realisation and intimate to the stuff of my consciousness. Then from what position can I adjudicate this dispute? X thinks I am superior in greatness, you think there can be nothing greater than Krishna; each is entitled to have his own view or feeling, whether it is itself right or not. It can be left there; it can be no reason for your leaving the Asram.” <br /><span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">25</span> February <span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">1945</span> (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">431</span>-<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">32</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
