<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-392</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_2_-withoutred-_-_FinalforPress-392" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-392" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idIndexMarker1051"></a><span class="Index">Surrender to the Guru</span> – the Surrender beyond All Surrenders</h2>
			<p class="questions">“Surrender to the Divine and surrender to the Guru are said to be two different things. Is it really so?</p>
			<p class="body-text">No. In surrendering to the <a id="_idIndexMarker1052"></a><span class="Index">Guru</span>, it is to the Divine in him that one surrenders – if it were only to a human entity it would be ineffective. But it is the consciousness of the Divine Presence that makes the Guru a real Guru, so that even if the disciple surrenders to him thinking of the human being to whom he surrenders, that Presence would still make it effective.</p>
			<p class="questions">Does surrender to the formless Divine leave the being subject to the gunas and ego to a certain extent?</p>
			<p class="body-text">Yes – because only the static part would be free in formlessness, the active Nature would be still in the play of the gunas. Many think they are free from the ego because they get the sense of the formless Existence, they do not see that the egoistic element remains in their action just as before.</p>
			<p class="questions">Is not surrender to the Divine in form – as the Guru – higher than the surrender to the formless Divine?</p>
			<p class="body-text">It is more dynamic.</p>
			<p class="questions">What makes the surrender to the Guru so grand and glorious as to be called the surrender beyond all surrenders?</p>
			<p class="body-text">Because through it you surrender not only to the impersonal but to the personal, not only to the Divine in yourself but to the Divine outside you; you get a chance for the surpassing of ego not only by retreat into the Self where ego does not exist, but in the personal nature where it is the ruler. It is the sign of the will to complete surrender to the total Divine, samagraṁ mām, mānuṣīm tanum āśritam. Of course it must be a genuine spiritual surrender for all this to be true.</p>
			<p class="questions">If absolute surrender to the Guru leaves one helpless like a puppet in the hands of forces – what good is it? I think what is harmful is to surrender only to the Divine in the Guru and not to the Divine in one’s Self. It is this one-sided surrender which is harmful.</p>
			<p class="body-text">What is harmful is to surrender to something in yourself which flatters your ego and which you call the Divine. It is that which makes you a puppet in the hands of Forces.” <span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">20</span> November <span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">1933</span> (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">396</span>-<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">97</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
