<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-341</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_2_-withoutred-_-_FinalforPress-341" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-341" class="SubHead1">Savitri’s Answer to Her Mother’s Appeals to Choose Again</h2>
			<p class="savitri-text">“Once my heart chose and chooses not again.<br />The word I have spoken can never be erased,<br />It is written in the record book of God.<br />The truth once uttered, from the earth’s air effaced,<br />By mind forgotten, sounds immortally<br />For ever in the memory of Time.<br />Once the dice fall thrown by the hand of Fate<br />In an eternal moment of the gods.<br />My heart has sealed its troth to Satyavan:<br />Its signature adverse Fate cannot efface,<br />Its seal not Fate nor Death nor Time dissolve.<br />Those who shall part who have grown one being within?<br />Death’s grip can break our bodies, not our souls;<br />If death take him, I too know how to die.<br />Let Fate do with me what she will or can;<br />I am stronger than death and greater than my fate;<br />My love shall outlast the world, doom falls from me<br />Helpless against my immortality.<br />Fate’s law may change, but not my spirit’s will.” (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">432</span>)</p>
			<p class="savitri-text">“My will is part of the eternal Will,<br />My fate is what my spirit’s strength can make,<br />My fate is what my spirit’s strength can bear;<br />My strength is not the Titan’s; it is God’s.<br />I have discovered my glad reality<br />Beyond my body in another’s being:<br />I have found the deep unchanging soul of love.<br />Then how shall I desire a lonely good,<br />Or slay, aspiring to white vacant peace,<br />The endless hope that made my soul spring forth<br />Out of its infinite solitude and sleep?<br />My spirit has glimpsed the glory for which it came,<br />The beating of one vast heart in the flame of things,<br />My eternity clasped by his eternity<br />And, tireless of the sweet abysms of Time,<br />Deep possibility always to love.<br />This, this is first, last joy and to its throb<br />The riches of a thousand fortunate years<br />Are poverty. Nothing to me are death and grief<br />Or ordinary lives and happy days.<br />And what to me are common souls of men<br />Or eyes and lips that are not Satyavan’s?<br />I have no need to draw back from his arms<br />And the discovered paradise of his love<br />And journey into a still infinity.<br />Only now for my soul in Satyavan<br />I treasure the rich occasion of my birth:<br />In sunlight and a dream of emerald ways<br />I shall walk with him like gods in Paradise.<br />If for a year, that year is all my life.<br />And yet I know this is not all my fate<br />Only to live and love awhile and die.<br />For I know now why my spirit came on earth<br />And who I am and who he is I love.<br />I have looked at him from my immortal Self,<br />I have seen God smile at me in Satyavan;<br />I have seen the Eternal in a human face.”<br />Then none could answer to her words. Silent<br />They sat and looked into the eyes of Fate.” (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">435</span>-<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">36</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
