<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-42</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_2_-withoutred-_-_FinalforPress-42" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-42" class="SubHead1">The Gross Body – (Sthūla Śarīra) and the Antahkarana – the Inner Instrument</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“Our body is a living body; the life-force mingles in and determines all its functionings. Our mind too is largely a mind of life, a mind of physical sensation; only in its higher functions is it normally capable of something more than the workings of a physical mentality subjected to life. We may put it in this ascending order. We have first a body supported by the physical life-force, the physical prana which courses through the whole nervous system and gives its stamp to our corporeal action, so that all is of the character of the action of a living and not an inert mechanical body. Prana and physicality together make the <a id="_idIndexMarker143"></a><span class="Index">gross body</span>, sthūla śarīra. This is only the outer instrument, the nervous force of life acting in the form of body with its gross physical organs. Then there is the inner instrument, <a id="_idIndexMarker144"></a><span class="Index">anta</span><span class="Index">ḥ</span><span class="Index">kara</span><span class="Index">ṇ</span><span class="Index">a</span>, the conscious mentality. This inner instrument is divided by the old system into four powers; <a id="_idIndexMarker145"></a><span class="Index">citta</span> or basic mental consciousness; <a id="_idIndexMarker146"></a><span class="Index">manas</span>, the sense mind; <a id="_idIndexMarker147"></a><span class="Index">buddhi</span>, the intelligence; <a id="_idIndexMarker148"></a><span class="Index">aha</span><span class="Index">ṅ</span><span class="Index">k</span><span class="Index">ā</span><span class="Index">ra</span>, the ego-idea. The classification may serve as a starting-point, though for a greater practicality we have to make certain farther distinctions. This mentality is pervaded by the life-force, which becomes here an instrument for psychic consciousness of life and psychic action on life. Every fibre of the sense mind and basic consciousness is shot through with the action of this <a id="_idIndexMarker149"></a>psychic prana, it is a nervous or vital and physical mentality. Even the buddhi and ego are overpowered by it, although they have the capacity of raising the mind beyond subjection to this vital, nervous and physical psychology. This combination creates in us the sensational <a id="_idIndexMarker150"></a>desire-soul which is the chief obstacle to a higher human as well as to the still greater divine perfection. Finally, above our present conscious mentality is a secret supermind which is the proper means and native seat of that perfection.” (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">647</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
