<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-424</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_2_-withoutred-_-_FinalforPress-424" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-424" class="SubHead1">The Future of <a id="_idIndexMarker1109"></a><span class="Index">Sanatana Dharma</span> (K.M.Munshi’s Letter and Sri Aurobindo’s Reply)</h2>
			<p class="questions">“<a id="_idIndexMarker1110"></a><span class="Index">K. M. MUNSHI</span>: I would like to have your guidance as regards the future of Sanatan Dharma. Starting from your Uttarpara Speech, which has been a sort of beacon to me for years, I have been working for the reintegration of <a id="_idIndexMarker1111"></a><span class="Index">Hindu culture</span> . . . But I am neither learned nor a profound thinker. I can contribute only my faith and the little energy which has been vouchsafed to me. I only pray that strength may be given to me to carry forward the message of the Seers of whom, in my opinion, you are the only surviving Apostle. What shall I do now?</p>
			<p class="body-text">My dear Kanubhai</p>
			<p class="body-text">In reply to your letter to him of July <span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">30</span>th <span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">1950</span> Sri Aurobindo has asked me to write to you the following: – <span id="footnote-037-backlink"><a class="_idFootnoteLink _idGenColorInherit" href="CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-424.xhtml#footnote-037">[5]</a></span></p>
			<p class="body-text">“Your feeling that there should be reintegration of Indian Culture under modern conditions is quite right. It is the work that has to be done. And as far as Sri Aurobindo can see at present Indian Spiritual Culture has a great and bright future before it. It is the future power that might dominate the world. </p>
			<p class="body-text">So, your efforts in carrying out that work are quite in the right direction and in carrying out that work you would have his full support and blessings.” <span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">3</span> August <span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">1950</span> (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">512</span>-<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">13</span>)</p>
			<hr class="HorizontalRule-1" />
			<div class="_idFootnotes">
				<div id="footnote-037" class="_idFootnote" epub:type="footnote">
					<p class="footnote"><a class="_idFootnoteAnchor _idGenColorInherit" href="CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-424.xhtml#footnote-037-backlink">[5]</a> The paragraphs that follow were dictated by Sri Aurobindo to A. B. Purani and sent to Munshi over Purani’s signature. – Ed.</p>
				</div>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
