<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-351</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_2_-withoutred-_-_FinalforPress-351" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-351" class="SubHead1">The Night of God – the First Thing Experienced in the Findings of the Soul</h2>
			<p class="savitri-text">“ONWARD she passed seeking the soul’s mystic cave.<br />At first she stepped into a night of God.<br />The light was quenched that helps the labouring world,<br />The power that struggles and stumbles in our life;<br />This inefficient mind gave up its thoughts,<br />The striving heart its unavailing hopes.<br />All knowledge failed and the Idea’s forms<br />And Wisdom screened in awe her lowly head<br />Feeling a Truth too great for thought or speech,<br />Formless, ineffable, for ever the same.<br />An innocent and holy Ignorance<br />Adored like one who worships formless God<br />The unseen Light she could not claim nor own.<br />In a simple purity of emptiness<br />Her mind knelt down before the unknowable.<br />All was abolished save her naked self<br />And the prostrate yearning of her surrendered heart:<br />There was no strength in her, no pride of force;<br />The lofty burning of desire had sunk<br />Ashamed, a vanity of separate self,<br />The hope of spiritual greatness fled,<br />Salvation she asked not nor a heavenly crown:<br />Humility seemed now too proud a state.<br />Her self was nothing, God alone was all,<br />Yet God she knew not but only knew he was.<br />A sacred darkness brooded now within,<br />The world was a deep darkness great and nude.<br />This void held more than all the teeming worlds,<br />This blank felt more than all that Time has borne,<br />This dark knew dumbly, immensely the Unknown.<br />But all was formless, voiceless, infinite.<br />As might a shadow walk in a shadowy scene,<br />A small nought passing through a mightier Nought,<br />A night of person in a bare outline<br />Crossing a fathomless impersonal Night,<br />Silent she moved, empty and absolute.<br />In endless Time her soul reached a wide end,<br />The spaceless Vast became her spirit’s place.” (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">522</span>-<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">23</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
