<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-343</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_2_-withoutred-_-_FinalforPress-343" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-343" class="SubHead1">The Difficulties That Must Be Faced and the Battles That Must Be Waged by <a id="_idIndexMarker1014"></a><span class="Index">God’s Messengers</span> Who Come to Help</h2>
			<p class="savitri-text">“The seed of Godhead sleeps in mortal hearts,<br />The flower of Godhead grows on the world-tree:<br />All shall discover God in self and things.<br />But when God’s messenger comes to help the world<br />And lead the soul of earth to higher things,<br />He too must carry the yoke he came to unloose;<br />He too must bear the pang that he would heal:<br />Exempt and unafflicted by earth’s fate,<br />How shall he cure the ills he never felt?<br />He covers the world’s agony with his calm;<br />But though to the outward eye no sign appears<br />And peace is given to our torn human hearts,<br />The struggle is there and paid the unseen price;<br />The fire, the strife, the wrestle are within.<br />He carries the suffering world in his own breast;<br />Its sins weigh on his thoughts, its grief is his:<br />Earth’s ancient load lies heavy on his soul;<br />Night and its powers beleaguer his tardy steps,<br />The Titan adversary’s clutch he bears;<br />His march is a battle and a pilgrimage.<br />Life’s evil smites, he is stricken with the world’s pain:<br />A million wounds gape in his secret heart.<br />He journeys sleepless through an unending night;<br />Antagonist forces crowd across his path;<br />A siege, a combat is his inner life.<br />Even worse may be the cost, direr the pain:<br />His large identity and all-harbouring love<br />Shall bring the cosmic anguish into his depths,<br />The sorrow of all living things shall come<br />And knock at his doors and live within his house;<br />A dreadful cord of sympathy can tie<br />All suffering into his single grief and make<br />All agony in all the worlds his own.<br />He meets an ancient adversary Force,<br />He is lashed with the whips that tear the world’s worn heart;<br />The weeping of the centuries visits his eyes:<br />He wears the blood-glued fiery Centaur shirt,<br />The poison of the world has stained his throat.<br />In the market-place of Matter’s capital<br />Amidst the chafferings of the affair called life<br />He is tied to the stake of a perennial Fire;<br />He burns on an unseen original verge<br />That Matter may be turned to spirit stuff:<br />He is the victim in his own sacrifice.<br />The Immortal bound to earth’s mortality<br />Appearing and perishing on the roads of Time<br />Creates God’s moment by eternity’s beats.<br />He dies that the world may be new-born and live.<br />Even if he escapes the fiercest fires,<br />Even if the world breaks not in, a drowning sea,<br />Only by hard sacrifice is high heaven earned:<br />He must face the fight, the pang who would conquer Hell.<br />A dark concealed hostility is lodged<br />In the human depths, in the hidden heart of Time<br />That claims the right to change and mar God’s work.<br />A secret enmity ambushes the world’s march;<br />It leaves a mark on thought and speech and act:<br />It stamps stain and defect on all things done;<br />Till it is slain peace is forbidden on earth.<br />There is no visible foe, but the unseen<br />Is round us, forces intangible besiege,<br />Touches from alien realms, thoughts not our own<br />Overtake us and compel the erring heart;<br />Our lives are caught in an ambiguous net.<br />An adversary Force was born of old:<br />Invader of the life of mortal man,<br />It hides from him the straight immortal path.<br />A power came in to veil the eternal Light,<br />A power opposed to the eternal will<br />Diverts the messages of the infallible Word,<br />Contorts the contours of the cosmic plan:<br />A whisper lures to evil the human heart,<br />It seals up wisdom’s eyes, the soul’s regard,<br />It is the origin of our suffering here,<br />It binds earth to calamity and pain.<br />This all must conquer who would bring down God’s peace.<br />This hidden foe lodged in the human breast<br />Man must overcome or miss his higher fate.<br />This is the inner war without escape.” (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">446</span>-<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">48</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
