<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-374</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_2_-withoutred-_-_FinalforPress-374" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-374" class="SubHead1">The Final Effects of Gandhi’s Movement</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“... As a matter of fact the final effects of Gandhi’s movement have been</p>
			<p class="body-text">(a) A tremendous fissure between the Hindus and Mahomedans which is going to be kept permanent by communal representation.</p>
			<p class="body-text">(b) A widening fissure between caste Hindus and Harijans, to be made permanent in the same way.</p>
			<p class="body-text">(c) A great confusion in Indian politics which leaves it a huge mass of division, warring tendencies, no clear guide or compass anywhere.</p>
			<p class="body-text">(d) A new constitution which puts the conservative class in power to serve as a means of maintaining British domination or at least as an intolerable brake on progress – also divides India into five or six Indias, Hindu, Moslem, Pariah, Christian, Sikh etc.</p>
			<p class="body-text">(e) A big fiasco<span id="footnote-030-backlink"><a class="_idFootnoteLink _idGenColorInherit" href="CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-374.xhtml#footnote-030">[1]</a></span> of the Non-Cooperation movement which is throwing politics back on one side to reformism, on the other to a blatant and insincere Socialism.</p>
			<p class="body-text">That, I think, is the sum and substance of the matter. </p>
			<p class="body-text">As for the Hindu-Moslem affair, I saw no reason why the greatness of India’s past or her spirituality should be thrown into the waste-paper basket in order to conciliate the Moslems who would not at all be conciliated by such a stupidity. What has created the Hindu-Moslem split was not Swadeshi, but the acceptance of the communal principle by the Congress, (here Tilak made his great blunder), and the farther attempt by the Khilafat movement to conciliate them and bring them in on wrong lines. The recognition of that communal principle at Lucknow made them permanently a separate political entity in India which ought never to have happened; the Khilafat affair made that separate political entity an organised separate political power. It was not Swadeshi, Boycott, National Education, Swaraj (our platform) which made this tremendous division, how could it? Tilak whom the Kripalani man blames along with me for it, is responsible not by that, but by his support of the Lucknow affair – for the rest, Gandhi did it with the help of his Ali brothers.” <span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">14</span> April <span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">1936</span> (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">20</span>-<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">21</span>)</p>
			<hr class="HorizontalRule-1" />
			<div class="_idFootnotes">
				<div id="footnote-030" class="_idFootnote" epub:type="footnote">
					<p class="footnote"><a class="_idFootnoteAnchor _idGenColorInherit" href="CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-374.xhtml#footnote-030-backlink">[1]</a> I am referring to my prophecy made at the beginning of the Non-Cooperation movement, “It will end in a great confusion or in a great fiasco.” I was not a correct prophet, as I have pointed out before. It should have run, “It will end in a great confusion and a great fiasco.” But after all I was not speaking from the supramental which alone can be infallible.</p>
				</div>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
