<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-324</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_2_-withoutred-_-_FinalforPress-324" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-324" class="SubHead1">A High and Blank Negation Is Not All the Meaning of This <a id="_idIndexMarker1006"></a><span class="Index">Mysterious World</span></h2>
			<p class="savitri-text">“A STILLNESS absolute, incommunicable,<br />Meets the sheer self-discovery of the soul;<br />A wall of stillness shuts it from the world,<br />A gulf of stillness swallows up the sense<br />And makes unreal all that mind has known,<br />All that the labouring senses still would weave<br />Prolonging an imaged unreality.<br />Self’s vast spiritual silence occupies Space;<br />Only the Inconceivable is left,<br />Only the Nameless without space and time:<br />Abolished is the burdening need of life:<br />Thought falls from us, we cease from joy and grief;<br />The ego is dead; we are freed from being and care,<br />We have done with birth and death and work and fate.<br />O soul, it is too early to rejoice!<br />Thou hast reached the boundless silence of the Self,<br />Thou hast leaped into a glad divine abyss;<br />But where hast thou thrown Self’s mission and Self’s power?<br />On what dead bank on the Eternal’s road?<br />One was within thee who was self and world,<br />What hast thou done for his purpose in the stars?<br />Escape brings not the victory and the crown!<br />Something thou cam’st to do from the Unknown,<br />But nothing is finished and the world goes on<br />Because only half God’s cosmic work is done.<br />Only the everlasting No has neared<br />And stared into thy eyes and killed thy heart:<br />But where is the Lover’s everlasting Yes,<br />And immortality in the secret heart,</p>
			<p class="savitri-text">The voice that chants to the creator Fire,<br />The symbolled OM, the great assenting Word,<br />The bridge between the rapture and the calm,<br />The passion and the beauty of the Bride,<br />The chamber where the glorious enemies kiss,<br />The smile that saves, the golden peak of things?<br />This too is Truth at the mystic fount of Life.<br />A black veil has been lifted; we have seen<br />The mighty shadow of the omniscient Lord;<br />But who has lifted up the veil of light<br />And who has seen the body of the King?<br />The mystery of God’s birth and acts remains<br />Leaving unbroken the last chapter’s seal,<br />Unsolved the riddle of the unfinished Play;<br />The cosmic Player laughs within his mask,<br />And still the last inviolate secret hides<br />Behind the human glory of a Form,<br />Behind the gold eidolon of a Name.<br />...........<br />A high and blank negation is not all,<br />A huge extinction is not God’s last word,<br />Life’s ultimate sense, the close of being’s course,<br />The meaning of this great mysterious world.<br />In absolute silence sleeps an absolute Power.<br />Awaking, it can wake the trance-bound soul<br />And in the ray reveal the parent sun:<br />It can make the world a vessel of Spirit’s force,<br />It can fashion in the clay God’s perfect shape.<br />To free the self is but one radiant pace;<br />Here to fulfil himself was <a id="_idIndexMarker1007"></a><span class="Index">God’s desire</span>.” (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">310</span>-<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">12</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
