<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-210</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_2_-withoutred-_-_FinalforPress-210" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-210" class="SubHead1">A Problem of Faith</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“How to conciliate these two notions:</p>
			<p class="body-text">(<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">1</span>) that the Divine’s Will is behind all movements and happenings,</p>
			<p class="body-text">(<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">2</span>) that the Divine Will is distorted in the manifestation.</p>
			<p class="body-text">There are two kinds of faith:</p>
			<p class="body-text">The faith that calls down the <a id="_idIndexMarker742"></a>equanimity and the faith that calls down the realisation.</p>
			<p class="body-text">These two faiths correspond to two different aspects of the Divine.</p>
			<p class="body-text">There is the Transcendent Divine and there is the Cosmic Divine.</p>
			<p class="body-text">The Will of realisation is that of the <a id="_idIndexMarker743"></a><span class="Index">Transcendent Divine</span>.</p>
			<p class="body-text">The Cosmic Divine is what is concerned with the actual working out of things under the present circumstances. It is the Will of that <a id="_idIndexMarker744"></a><span class="Index">Cosmic Divine</span> which is manifested in each circumstance, each movement of this world.</p>
			<p class="body-text">The Cosmic Will is not, to our ordinary consciousness, something that acts as an independent power doing whatever it chooses; it works through all these beings, through the forces at play in the world and the law of these forces and their results. It is only when we open ourselves and get out of the ordinary consciousness that we can feel it intervening as an independent power and overriding the ordinary play of the forces.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Then too we can see that even in the play of the forces and in spite of their distortions the Cosmic Will is working towards the eventual realisation of the Will of the Transcendent Divine. </p>
			<p class="body-text">The supramental realisation is the Will of the Transcendent Divine which we have to work out. The circumstances under which we have to work it out are those of an inferior consciousness in which things can be distorted by our own ignorance, weaknesses and mistakes, and by the clash of conflicting forces. That is why faith and <a id="_idIndexMarker745"></a><span class="Index">equanimity</span> are indispensable. </p>
			<p class="body-text">We have to have the faith that in spite of our ignorance and errors and weaknesses and in spite of the attacks of hostile forces and in spite of any immediate appearance of failure the Divine Will is leading us, through every circumstance, towards the final realisation. This faith will give us equanimity; it is a faith that accepts what happens not definitively but as something that has to be gone through on the way. Once equanimity is established there can be established too another kind of faith, supported by it, which can be made dynamic with something from the supramental consciousness and can overcome the present circumstances and determine what will happen and help to bring down the realisation of the Will of the Transcendent Divine.</p>
			<p class="body-text">The faith that goes to the Cosmic Divine is limited in the power of its action by the necessities of the play.</p>
			<p class="body-text">To get entirely free from these limitations one must reach the Transcendent Divine.” (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">90</span>-<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">91</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
