<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-358</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_2_-withoutred-_-_FinalforPress-358" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-358" class="SubHead1">The Voice of Light – How the World May Be Saved</h2>
			<p class="savitri-text">“Then from the heights a greater Voice came down,<br />The Word that touches the heart and finds the soul,<br />The voice of Light after the voice of Night:<br />The cry of the Abyss drew Heaven’s reply,<br />A might of storm chased by the might of the Sun.<br />“O soul, bare not thy kingdom to the foe;<br />Consent to hide thy royalty of bliss<br />Lest Time and Fate find out its avenues<br />And beat with thunderous knock upon thy gates.<br />Hide whilst thou canst thy treasure of separate self<br />Behind the luminous rampart of thy depths<br />Till of a vaster empire it grows part.<br />But not for self alone the Self is won:<br />Content abide not with one conquered realm;<br />Adventure all to make the whole world thine,<br />To break into greater kingdoms turn thy force.<br />Fear not to be nothing that thou mayst be all;<br />Assent to the emptiness of the Supreme<br />That all in thee may reach its absolute.<br />Accept to be small and human on the earth,<br />Interrupting thy new-born divinity,<br />That man may find his utter self in God.<br />If for thy own sake only thou hast come,<br />An immortal spirit into the mortal’s world,<br />To found thy luminous kingdom in God’s dark,<br />In the Inconscient’s realm one shining star,<br />One door in the Ignorance opened upon light,<br />Why hadst thou any need to come at all?<br />Thou hast come down into a struggling world<br />To aid a blind and suffering mortal race,<br />To open to Light the eyes that could not see,<br />To bring down bliss into the heart of grief,<br />To make thy life a bridge twixt earth and heaven;<br />If thou wouldst save the toiling universe,<br />The vast universal suffering feel as thine:<br />Thou must bear the sorrow that thou claimst to heal;<br />The day-bringer must walk in darkest night.<br />He who would save the world must share its pain.<br />If he knows not grief, how shall he find grief’s cure?<br />If far he walks above mortality’s head,<br />How shall the mortal reach that too high path?<br />If one of theirs they see scale heaven’s peaks,<br />Men then can hope to learn that titan climb.<br />God must be born on earth and be as man<br />That man being human may grow even as God.<br />He who would save the world must be one with the world,<br />All suffering things contain in his heart’s space<br />And bear the grief and joy of all that lives.<br />His soul must be wider than the universe<br />And feel eternity as its very stuff,<br />Rejecting the moment’s personality<br />Know itself older than the birth of Time,<br />Creation an incident in its consciousness,<br />Arcturus and Belphegor grains of fire<br />Circling in a corner of its boundless self,<br />The world’s destruction a small transient storm<br />In the calm infinity it has become.” (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">536</span>-<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">37</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
