<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-287</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_2_-withoutred-_-_FinalforPress-287" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-287" class="SubHead1">The <a id="_idIndexMarker971"></a><span class="Index">Mother’s Knowledge</span> of Things</h2>
			<p class="questions">“You have said: “Always behave as if the Mother was looking at you; because she is, indeed, always present.”<span id="footnote-028-backlink"><a class="_idFootnoteLink _idGenColorInherit" href="CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-287.xhtml#footnote-028">[1]</a></span> Does this mean that the Mother knows all our insignificant thoughts at all times, or only when she concentrates?</p>
			<p class="body-text">It is said that the <a id="_idIndexMarker972"></a><span class="Index">Mother is always present</span> and looking at you. That does not mean that in her physical mind she is thinking of you always and seeing your thoughts. There is no need of that, since she is everywhere and acts everywhere out of her universal knowledge.” <span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">12</span> August <span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">1933</span> (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">169</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="questions">“In what sense is the Mother “everywhere”? Is it because she has descended to the universal and has complete knowledge of the forces working there? I suppose the universal or “everywhere” includes the physical plane. If so, does the Mother know all the happenings and events on the physical plane?</p>
			<p class="body-text">Including what Lloyd George had today for breakfast or what Roosevelt said to his wife about their servants? Why should the Mother “know” in the human way all such happenings on the physical plane? Her business in her embodiment is to know the working of the universal forces and use them for her work; for the rest she knows what she needs to know, sometimes with her inner self, sometimes with her physical mind. All knowledge is available in her universal self to her, but she brings forward only what is meant to be brought forward so that the work may be done.” <span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">13</span> August <span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">1933</span> (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">169</span>-<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">70</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="questions">“This question of Mother’s knowledge became even more interesting for me today. She gave me the flower signifying “Discipline”. I began to wonder why this particular flower was given; then I remembered that yesterday I had not observed the right discipline by taking a little hot khichari with Y and Z.</p>
			<p class="body-text">In this respect the Mother is guided by her intuitions which tell her which flower is needed at the moment or helpful. Sometimes it is accompanied by a perception of a particular state of consciousness, sometimes by that of a material fact; but only the bare fact, usually – e.g. it would not specify that it was hot khichari that was cooked or how Y or Z came in. Not that that is impossible, but it is unnecessary and does not happen unless needed.” <span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">16</span> July <span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">1935</span> (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">179</span>-<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">80</span>)</p>
			<hr class="HorizontalRule-1" />
			<div class="_idFootnotes">
				<div id="footnote-028" class="_idFootnote" epub:type="footnote">
					<p class="footnote"><a class="_idFootnoteAnchor _idGenColorInherit" href="CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-287.xhtml#footnote-028-backlink">[1]</a> This message of Sri Aurobindo was first hung in the dining hall of the Ashram on <span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-3">28</span> March <span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-3">1928</span>. – Ed.</p>
				</div>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
