<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-183</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_2_-withoutred-_-_FinalforPress-183" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-183" class="SubHead1">The <a id="_idIndexMarker652"></a><span class="Index">Hostile Forces</span> and the Hostile Beings</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“The hostile forces exist and have been known to Yogic experience ever since the days of the Veda and Zoroaster in Asia (and the mysteries of Egypt and Chaldea and the Cabbala) and in Europe also from old times. These things of course cannot be felt or known so long as one lives in the ordinary mind and its ideas and perceptions – for there there are only two categories of influences recognisable, the ideas and feelings and actions of oneself and others and the play of environment and physical forces. But once one begins to get the inner view of things, it is different. One begins to experience that all is an action of forces, forces of Prakriti psychological as well as physical which play upon our nature – and these are conscious forces or are supported by a consciousness or consciousnesses behind. One is in the midst of a big universal working and it is impossible any longer to explain everything as the result of one’s own sole and independent personality. You yourself have at one time written that your crises of despair etc. came upon you as if thrown on you and worked themselves out without your being able to determine or put an end to them. That means an action of universal forces and not merely an independent action of your own personality, though it is something in your nature of which they make use. But you are not conscious, and others also, of this intervention and pressure at its source for the reason I state. Those in the Asram who have developed the inner view of things on the vital plane<span id="footnote-021-backlink"><a class="_idFootnoteLink _idGenColorInherit" href="CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-183.xhtml#footnote-021">[5]</a></span> have plenty of experience of the hostile forces. However, you need not personally concern yourself with them so long as they remain incognito.</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">*</p>
			<p class="body-text">It is true that all comes from the Divine and it is true also that a Divine Presence and a Divine Will is behind all that happens and leads the world towards a divine goal.</p>
			<p class="body-text">At the same time it is also taught in the Gita that this world is a world of obscurity and ignorance and to attain to the Divine one must overcome certain forces of Nature, such as Desire, which the Gita calls the enemy difficult to overcome. It is in this sense that we speak of hostile forces – those which stand in the way of coming out of the Ignorance and attaining to the consciousness of the Divine.</p>
			<p class="body-text">It is again true that those who have a complete and living faith in the Divine and a perfect sincerity in their vision of the Divine everywhere and a pure sattwic nature need not trouble themselves about the hostile forces – for from them the forces of the Ignorance fall back and cannot take possession of their nature.</p>
			<p class="body-text">The teaching about the hostile forces (Asuri Rakshasi forces) is necessary for those who have a divided consciousness or a more rajasic temperament – for if they are not on their guard they may fall into the control of undesirable forces of Desire and Ego – </p>
			<p class="body-text">rākṣasīm āsurīṁ caiva prakṛtiṁ mohinīṁ śritāḥ<span id="footnote-020-backlink"><a class="_idFootnoteLink _idGenColorInherit" href="CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-183.xhtml#footnote-020">[6]</a></span></p>
			<p class="star-single-center">*</p>
			<p class="body-text">Yes, they [the hostile forces] have their own world and, if they kept to it, there could be no objection to their existence. There is a world that is natural to them and has its own rhythm, its own dharma – just as the lesser gods have theirs. But, they want to dominate the evolution and for that purpose they have taken their station in the vital worlds which influence the earth nature and give it its materials for life.</p>
			<p class="body-text">They were created or rather manifested like other orders of being as a type or several types expressing some cosmic stress, some possibility in the Infinite, the expression of a certain kind of consciousness and force. When the work that they are permitted to do on earth, the work of negation, perversion, miscreation is finished they will be destroyed here, but there is no reason to suppose that they may not exist in their own universe, as it were, outside the system here. For here their presence is an Adharma, a disturbance of the true harmony and natural evolution there should be on the earth plane; it is an intrusion and not a natural presence.</p>
			<p class="body-text">How did the Ignorance come into being out of Sachchidananda? Or ego? The Hostile Forces in their own world embody ego self-fulfilled and having its own free play – ego on earth is not self-fulfilled and not meant to be, it is in conflict with a cosmic Force greater than itself and is only a temporary expedient for bringing forth individuality out of the indeterminateness of just conscient life and inconscient Matter.</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">*</p>
			<p class="body-text">If there were no hostile forces and there were still the evolutionary world, there could be ignorance still but not perversity in the ignorance. All would be a partial truth acting through imperfect instruments but for the best purposes of this or that stage in a progressive manifestation.” (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">461</span>-<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">63</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“The <a id="_idIndexMarker653"></a><span class="Index">Asuras</span> and <a id="_idIndexMarker654"></a><span class="Index">Rakshasas</span> etc. do not belong to the earth, but to supraphysical worlds; but they act upon the earth life and dispute the control of human life and character and action with the Gods. They are the Powers of Darkness combating the Powers of Light.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Sometimes they possess men in order to act through them, sometimes they take birth in a human body. When their use in the play is over, they will either change or disappear or no longer seek to intervene in the earth-play.” (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">465</span>-<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">66</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“The Asuras are really the dark side of the mental, or more strictly, of the vital mind plane. This mind is the very field of the Asuras. Their main characteristic is egoistic strength and struggle, which refuse the higher law. The Asura has self-control, tapas and intelligence, but all that for the sake of his ego. On the lower vital plane the corresponding forces we call the Rakshasas which represent violent passions and influences. There are also other kinds of beings on the vital plane which are called the <a id="_idIndexMarker655"></a>Pisachas and <a id="_idIndexMarker656"></a>Pramathas. They manifest more or less in the physico-vital. </p>
			<p class="body-text">On the physical plane the corresponding forces are obscure beings, more forces than beings, what the Theosophists call the elementals. They are not strongly individualised beings like the Rakshasas and Asuras, but ignorant and obscure forces working in the subtle physical plane. What we in Sanskrit call the Bhutas mostly come under this class. But there are two kinds of elementals, the one mischievous and the other not.</p>
			<p class="body-text">There are no Asuras on the higher planes where the Truth prevails, except in the Vedic sense – “the Divine in its strength”. The mental and vital Asuras are only a deviation of that power.</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">*</p>
			<p class="body-text">The <a id="_idIndexMarker657"></a><span class="Index">Gandharvas</span> are of the vital plane but they are vital Gods, not Asuras. Many Asuras are beautiful in appearance and can carry even a splendour or light with them. It is the Rakshasas, Pisachas, etc. who are ugly or evil in appearance.</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">*</p>
			<p class="body-text">Some of the vital beings are very intelligent – but they do not make friends with the Light – they only try to avoid destruction and wait their time.</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">*</p>
			<p class="body-text">Very few [vital beings] come upon earth – they prefer to get hold of human beings and make them their instruments. They do not evolve. They have no evolved or evolving psychic being and they dread to incarnate just because they would then be obliged to progress and evolve the psychic.</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">*</p>
			<p class="body-text">There is no particular number [of vital beings that surround a person] – but sometimes there are particular vital beings that attach themselves to a man if he accepts them.” (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">467</span>-<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">68</span>)</p>
			<hr class="HorizontalRule-1" />
			<div class="_idFootnotes">
				<div id="footnote-021" class="_idFootnote" epub:type="footnote">
					<p class="footnote"><a class="_idFootnoteAnchor _idGenColorInherit" href="CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-183.xhtml#footnote-021-backlink">[5]</a> One may have the experiences on the mental plane without this knowledge coming – for there Mind and Idea predominate and one does not feel the play of Forces – it is only in the vital that that becomes clear. In the mind plane they manifest at most as mental suggestions and not as concrete Powers. Also if one looks at things with the Mind only (even though it be the Inner Mind), one may see the subtle play of Nature-Forces but without recognising the conscious intention which we call hostile.</p>
				</div>
				<div id="footnote-020" class="_idFootnote" epub:type="footnote">
					<p class="footnote"><a class="_idFootnoteAnchor _idGenColorInherit" href="CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-183.xhtml#footnote-020-backlink">[6]</a> “Dwelling in the deluding Asuric and Rakshasic nature.” Gita <span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-3">9</span>.<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-3">12</span>. – Ed.</p>
				</div>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
