<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-137</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_2_-withoutred-_-_FinalforPress-137" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-137" class="SubHead1">The <a id="_idIndexMarker483"></a>Jivatman or Individual Self</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“By Jivatma we mean the individual self. Essentially it is one self with all others, but in the multiplicity of the Divine it is the individual self, an individual centre of the universe – and it sees everything in itself or itself in everything or both together according to its state of consciousness and point of view.</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">*</p>
			<p class="body-text">The self, <a id="_idIndexMarker484"></a><span class="Index">Atman</span>, is in its nature either transcendent or universal (<a id="_idIndexMarker485"></a><span class="Index">Paramatma</span>, <a id="_idIndexMarker486"></a><span class="Index">Atma</span>); when it individualises and becomes a <a id="_idIndexMarker487"></a>central being, it is then the Jivatman. The Jivatman feels his oneness with the universal but at the same time his central separateness as a portion of the Divine.</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">*</p>
			<p class="body-text">The individual Self is usually described as a portion of the Transcendent and cosmic Self – in the higher and subtler ranges of the consciousness it knows itself as that, but in the lower where the consciousness is more and more clouded it identifies itself with surface forms of personality, creations of Prakriti, and becomes unaware of its divine origin. Self, when one becomes aware of it, is felt as something self-existent and eternal which is not identified with forms of mental, vital and physical personality, – these are only small expressions of its potentialities in Nature. What people call themselves now is only the ego or the mind or the life-force or the body, but that is because they think in the terms of the formations of Prakriti and do not see behind them.</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">*</p>
			<p class="body-text">For the most part the Supreme acts through the Jiva and its nature and the <a id="_idIndexMarker488"></a><span class="Index">Jiva</span> and the nature act through the ego and the ego acts through the outer instruments – that is the play of the Ignorance.</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">*</p>
			<p class="body-text">Essentially one Jiva has the same nature as all – but in manifestation each puts forth its own line of <a id="_idIndexMarker489"></a><span class="Index">Swabhava</span>.</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">*</p>
			<p class="body-text">The Jivatma is above all planes. It has no fixed form or colour, though it may represent itself in a form.</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">*</p>
			<p class="body-text">The Jivatma has always calm and peace – it is the nature (prakriti) that is not quiet.” (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">55</span>-<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">56</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
