<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-45</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_2_-withoutred-_-_FinalforPress-45" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-45" class="SubHead1">Manas – the Sense Mind</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“<a id="_idIndexMarker163"></a><span class="Index">Manas</span>, the <a id="_idIndexMarker164"></a><span class="Index">sense mind</span>, depends in our ordinary consciousness on the physical organs of receptive sense for knowledge and on the organs of the body for action directed towards the objects of sense. The superficial and outward action of the senses is physical and nervous in its character, and they may easily be thought to be merely results of nerve-action; they are sometimes called in the old books prāṇas, nervous or life activities. But still the essential thing in them is not the nervous excitation, but the consciousness, the action of the chitta, which makes use of the organ and of the nervous impact of which it is the channel. Manas, sense-mind, is the activity, emerging from the basic consciousness, which makes up the whole essentiality of what we call sense. Sight, hearing, taste, smell, touch are really properties of the mind, not of the body; but the physical mind which we ordinarily use, limits itself to a translation into sense of so much of the outer impacts as it receives through the nervous system and the physical organs. But the inner Manas has also a subtle sight, hearing, power of contact of its own which is not dependent on the physical organs. And it has, moreover, a power not only of direct communication of mind with object – leading even at a high pitch of action to a sense of the contents of an object within or beyond the physical range, – but direct communication also of mind with mind. Mind is able too to alter, modify, inhibit the incidence, values, intensities of sense impacts. These powers of the mind we do not ordinarily use or develop; they remain subliminal and emerge sometimes in an irregular and fitful action, more readily in some minds than in others, or come to the surface in abnormal states of the being. They are the basis of <a id="_idIndexMarker165"></a><span class="Index">clairvoyance</span>, <a id="_idIndexMarker166"></a><span class="Index">clairaudience</span>, transference of thought and impulse, <a id="_idIndexMarker167"></a>telepathy, most of the more ordinary kinds of occult powers, – so called, though these are better described less mystically as powers of the now subliminal action of the Manas. The phenomena of <a id="_idIndexMarker168"></a><span class="Index">hypnotism</span> and many others depend upon the action of this subliminal sense-mind; not that it alone constitutes all the elements of the phenomena, but it is the first supporting means of intercourse, communication and response, though much of the actual operation belongs to an inner Buddhi. Mind physical, mind supraphysical, – we have and can use this double sense mentality.” (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">650</span>-<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">51</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
