<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-369</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_2_-withoutred-_-_FinalforPress-369" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-369" class="SubHead1">Savitri’s Reply to the Radiant God</h2>
			<p class="savitri-text">“In vain thou temptst with solitary bliss<br />Two spirits saved out of a suffering world;<br />My soul and his indissolubly linked<br />In the one task for which our lives were born,<br />To raise the world to God in deathless Light,<br />To bring God down to the world on earth we came,<br />To change the earthly life to life divine.<br />I keep my will to save the world and man;<br />Even the charm of thy alluring voice,<br />O blissful Godhead, cannot seize and snare.<br />I sacrifice not earth to happier worlds.<br />Because there dwelt the Eternal’s vast Idea<br />And his dynamic will in men and things,<br />So only could the enormous scene begin.<br />Whence came this profitless wilderness of stars,<br />This mighty barren wheeling of the suns?<br />Who made the soul of futile life in Time,<br />Planted a purpose and a hope in the heart,<br />Set Nature to a huge and meaningless task<br />Or planned her million-aeoned effort’s waste?<br />What force condemned to birth and death and tears<br />These conscious creatures crawling on the globe?<br />If earth can look up to the light of heaven<br />And hear an answer to her lonely cry,<br />Not vain their meeting, nor heaven’s touch a snare.<br />If thou and I are true, the world is true;<br />Although thou hide thyself behind thy works,<br />To be is not a senseless paradox;<br />Since God has made earth, earth must make in her God;<br />What hides within her breast she must reveal.<br />I claim thee for the world that thou hast made.<br />If man lives bound by his humanity,<br />If he is tied for ever to his pain,<br />Let a greater being then arise from man,<br />The superhuman with the Eternal mate<br />And the Immortal shine through earthly forms.<br />Else were creation vain and this great world<br />A nothing that in Time’s moments seems to be.<br />But I have seen through the insentient mask;<br />I have felt a secret spirit stir in things<br />Carrying the body of the growing God:<br />It looks through veiling forms at veilless truth;<br />It pushes back the curtain of the gods;<br />It climbs towards its own eternity.” (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">692</span>-<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">93</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
