<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-342</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_2_-withoutred-_-_FinalforPress-342" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-342" class="SubHead1">Narad’s Answer to Savitri’s Mother – the <a id="_idIndexMarker1013"></a><span class="Index">Necessity of Pain</span></h2>
			<p class="savitri-text">“Was then the sun a dream because there is night?<br />Hidden in the mortal’s heart the Eternal lives:<br />He lives secret in the chamber of thy soul,<br />A Light shines there nor pain nor grief can cross.<br />A darkness stands between thyself and him,<br />Thou canst not hear or feel the marvellous Guest,<br />Thou canst not see the beatific sun.<br />O queen, thy thought is a light of the Ignorance,<br />Its brilliant curtain hides from thee God’s face.<br />It illumes a world born from the Inconscience<br />But hides the Immortal’s meaning in the world.<br />Thy mind’s light hides from thee the Eternal’s thought,<br />Thy heart’s hopes hide from thee the Eternal’s will,<br />Earth’s joys shut from thee the Immortal’s bliss.<br />Thence rose the need of a dark intruding god,<br />The world’s dread teacher, the creator, pain.<br />Where Ignorance is, there suffering too must come;<br />Thy grief is a cry of darkness to the Light;<br />Pain was the first-born of the Inconscience<br />Which was thy body’s dumb original base;<br />Already slept there pain’s subconscient shape:<br />A shadow in a shadowy tenebrous womb,<br />Till life shall move, it waits to wake and be.<br />In one caul with joy came forth the dreadful Power.<br />In life’s breast it was born hiding its twin;<br />But pain came first, then only joy could be.<br />Pain ploughed the first hard ground of the world-drowse.<br />By pain a spirit started from the clod,<br />By pain Life stirred in the subliminal deep.<br />Interned, submerged, hidden in Matter’s trance<br />Awoke to itself the dreamer, sleeping Mind;<br />It made a visible realm out of its dreams,<br />It drew its shapes from the subconscient depths,<br />Then turned to look upon the world it had made.<br />By pain and joy, the bright and tenebrous twins,<br />The inanimate world perceived its sentient soul,<br />Else had the Inconscient never suffered change.<br />Pain is the hammer of the Gods to break<br />A dead resistance in the mortal’s heart,<br />His slow inertia as of living stone.<br />If the heart were not forced to want and weep,<br />His soul would have lain down content, at ease,<br />And never thought to exceed the human start<br />And never learned to climb towards the Sun.<br />This earth is full of labour, packed with pain;<br />Throes of an endless birth coerce her still;<br />The centuries end, the ages vainly pass<br />And yet the Godhead in her is not born.<br />The ancient Mother faces all with joy,<br />Calls for the ardent pang, the grandiose thrill;<br />For with pain and labour all creation comes.<br />This earth is full of the anguish of the gods;<br />Ever they travail driven by Time’s goad,<br />And strive to work out the eternal Will<br />And shape the life divine in mortal forms.<br />His will must be worked out in human breasts<br />Against the Evil that rises from the gulfs,<br />Against the world’s Ignorance and its obstinate strength,<br />Against the stumblings of man’s pervert will,<br />Against the deep folly of his human mind,<br />Against the blind reluctance of his heart.<br />The spirit is doomed to pain till man is free.<br />There is a clamour of battle, a tramp, a march:<br />A cry arises like a moaning sea,<br />A desperate laughter under the blows of death,<br />A doom of blood and sweat and toil and tears.<br />Men die that man may live and God be born.<br />An awful Silence watches tragic Time.<br />Pain is the hand of Nature sculpturing men<br />To greatness: an inspired labour chisels<br />With heavenly cruelty an unwilling mould.<br />Implacable in the passion of their will,<br />Lifting the hammers of titanic toil<br />The demiurges of the universe work;<br />They shape with giant strokes their own; their sons<br />Are marked with their enormous stamp of fire.<br />Although the shaping god’s tremendous touch<br />Is torture unbearable to mortal nerves,<br />The fiery spirit grows in strength within<br />And feels a joy in every titan pang.<br />He who would save himself lives bare and calm;<br />He who would save the race must share its pain:<br />This he shall know who obeys that grandiose urge.<br />The Great who came to save this suffering world<br />And rescue out of Time’s shadow and the Law,<br />Must pass beneath the yoke of grief and pain;<br />They are caught by the Wheel that they had hoped to break,<br />On their shoulders they must bear man’s load of fate.<br />Heaven’s riches they bring, their sufferings count the price<br />Or they pay the gift of knowledge with their lives.<br />The Son of God born as the Son of man<br />Has drunk the bitter cup, owned Godhead’s debt,<br />The debt the Eternal owes to the fallen kind<br />His will has bound to death and struggling life<br />That yearns in vain for rest and endless peace.<br />Now is the debt paid, wiped off the original score.<br />The Eternal suffers in a human form,<br />He has signed salvation’s testament with his blood:<br />He has opened the doors of his undying peace.<br />The Deity compensates the creature’s claim,<br />The Creator bears the law of pain and death;<br />A retribution smites the incarnate God.<br />His love has paved the mortal’s road to Heaven:<br />He has given his life and light to balance here<br />The dark account of mortal ignorance.” (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">442</span>-<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">45</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
