<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-326</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_2_-withoutred-_-_FinalforPress-326" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-326" class="SubHead1">The <a id="_idIndexMarker1008"></a><span class="Index">Divine Mother</span></h2>
			<p class="savitri-text">“The Formless and the Formed were joined in her:<br />Immensity was exceeded by a look,<br />A Face revealed the crowded Infinite.<br />Incarnating inexpressibly in her limbs<br />The boundless joy the blind world-forces seek,<br />Her body of beauty mooned the seas of bliss.<br />At the head she stands of birth and toil and fate,<br />In their slow round the cycles turn to her call;<br />Alone her hands can change Time’s dragon base.<br />Hers is the mystery the Night conceals;<br />The spirit’s alchemist energy is hers;<br />She is the golden bridge, the wonderful fire.<br />The luminous heart of the Unknown is she,<br />A power of silence in the depths of God;<br />She is the Force, the inevitable Word,<br />The magnet of our difficult ascent,<br />The Sun from which we kindle all our suns,<br />The Light that leans from the unrealised Vasts,<br />The joy that beckons from the impossible,<br />The Might of all that never yet came down.<br />All Nature dumbly calls to her alone<br />To heal with her feet the aching throb of life<br />And break the seals on the dim soul of man<br />And kindle her fire in the closed heart of things.<br />All here shall be one day her sweetness’ home,<br />All contraries prepare her harmony;<br />Towards her our knowledge climbs, our passion gropes;<br />In her miraculous rapture we shall dwell,<br />Her clasp shall turn to ecstasy our pain.<br />Our self shall be one self with all through her.<br />In her confirmed because transformed in her,<br />Our life shall find in its fulfilled response<br />Above, the boundless hushed beatitudes,<br />Below, the wonder of the embrace divine.<br />This known as in a thunder-flash of God,<br />The rapture of things eternal filled his limbs;<br />Amazement fell upon his ravished sense;<br />His spirit was caught in her intolerant flame.<br />Once seen, his heart acknowledged only her.<br />Only a hunger of infinite bliss was left.<br />All aims in her were lost, then found in her;<br />His base was gathered to one pointing spire.” (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">314</span>-<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">15</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
