<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-352</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_2_-withoutred-_-_FinalforPress-352" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-352" class="SubHead1">Savitri Meets Her <a id="_idIndexMarker1019"></a><span class="Index">Secret Soul</span></h2>
			<p class="savitri-text">“There was no step of breathing men, no sound,<br />Only the living nearness of the soul.<br />Yet all the worlds and God himself were there,<br />For every symbol was a reality<br />And brought the presence which had given it life.<br />All this she saw and inly felt and knew<br />Not by some thought of mind but by the self.<br />A light not born of sun or moon or fire,<br />A light that dwelt within and saw within<br />Shedding an intimate visibility<br />Made secrecy more revealing than the word:<br />Our sight and sense are a fallible gaze and touch<br />And only the spirit’s vision is wholly true.<br />As thus she passed in that mysterious place<br />Through room and room, through door and rock-hewn door,<br />She felt herself made one with all she saw.<br />A sealed identity within her woke;<br />She knew herself the Beloved of the Supreme:<br />These Gods and Goddesses were he and she:<br />The Mother was she of Beauty and Delight,<br />The Word in Brahma’s vast creating clasp,<br />The World-Puissance on almighty Shiva’s lap, – <br />The Master and the Mother of all lives<br />Watching the worlds their twin regard had made,<br />And Krishna and Radha for ever entwined in bliss,<br />The Adorer and Adored self-lost and one.<br />In the last chamber on a golden seat<br />One sat whose shape no vision could define;<br />Only one felt the world’s unattainable fount,<br />A Power of which she was a straying Force,<br />An invisible Beauty, goal of the world’s desire,<br />A Sun of which all knowledge is a beam,<br />A Greatness without whom no life could be.<br />Thence all departed into silent self,<br />And all became formless and pure and bare.<br />Then through a tunnel dug in the last rock<br />She came out where there shone a deathless sun.<br />A house was there all made of flame and light<br />And crossing a wall of doorless living fire<br />There suddenly she met her secret soul.” (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">524</span>-<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">26</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
