<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-181</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_2_-withoutred-_-_FinalforPress-181" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-181" class="SubHead1">Attraction to Several Gods</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“At X’s conscientious hesitations between Krishna and Shakti and Shiva I could not help indulging in a smile. If a man is attracted by one form or two forms only of the Divine, it is all right, – but if he is drawn to several at a time he need not torment himself over it. A man of some development has necessarily several sides in his nature and it is quite natural that different aspects should draw or govern different personalities in him – he can very well accept them all and harmonise them in the One Divine and the One Adya Shakti of whom all are the manifestations.</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">*</p>
			<p class="body-text"><a id="_idIndexMarker647"></a><span class="Index">Shiva</span> is the Lord of Tapas. The power is the power of Tapas. </p>
			<p class="body-text"><a id="_idIndexMarker648"></a>Krishna as a godhead is the Lord of Ananda, Love and Bhakti; as an incarnation, he manifests the union of wisdom (Jnana) and works and leads the earth-evolution through this towards union with the Divine by Ananda, Love and Bhakti.</p>
			<p class="body-text">The <a id="_idIndexMarker649"></a><span class="Index">Devi</span> is the Divine Shakti – the Consciousness and Power of the Divine, the Mother and Energy of the worlds. All powers are hers. Sometimes Devi-power may mean the power of the universal World-Force; but this is only one side of the Shakti.” (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">459</span>-<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">60</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
