<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-279</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_2_-withoutred-_-_FinalforPress-279" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-279" class="SubHead1">The <a id="_idIndexMarker950"></a><span class="Index">Higher Worlds</span> and the <a id="_idIndexMarker951"></a><span class="Index">Transcendent Mother</span></h2>
			<p class="questions">“At the summit of this manifestation of which we are a part there are worlds of infinite existence, consciousness, force and bliss over which the Mother stands as the unveiled eternal Power.” The Transcendent Mother thus stands above the Ananda plane. There are then four steps of the <a id="_idIndexMarker952"></a><span class="Index">Divine Shakti</span>:</p>
			<p class="questions">(<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-4">1</span>) The <a id="_idIndexMarker953"></a><span class="Index">Transcendent Mahashakti</span> who stands above the Ananda plane and who bears the Supreme Divine in her eternal consciousness.</p>
			<p class="questions">(<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-4">2</span>) The <a id="_idIndexMarker954"></a><span class="Index">Mahashakti immanent</span> in the worlds of Sat-Chit-Ananda where all beings live and move in an ineffable completeness.</p>
			<p class="questions">(<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-4">3</span>) The <a id="_idIndexMarker955"></a><span class="Index">Supramental Mahashakti</span> immanent in the worlds of Supermind.</p>
			<p class="questions">(<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-4">4</span>) The <a id="_idIndexMarker956"></a><span class="Index">Cosmic Mahashakti</span> immanent in the lower hemisphere.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Yes; that is all right. One speaks often however of all above the lower hemisphere as part of the transcendence. This is because the Supermind and Ananda are not manifested in our universe at present, but are planes above it. For us the higher hemisphere is ij [para], the Supreme Transcendence is ijkRij [parātpara]. The Sanskrit terms are here clearer than the English. <span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">27</span> January <span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">1932</span>” (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">52</span>-<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">53</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
