<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-198</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_2_-withoutred-_-_FinalforPress-198" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-198" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idIndexMarker718"></a><span class="Index">Ghosts</span>*</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“What do you mean by a ghost? The word “ghost” as used in popular parlance covers an enormous number of distinct phenomena which have no necessary connection with each other.</p>
			<p class="body-text">To name a few only – </p>
			<p class="body-text">(<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">1</span>) An actual contact with the soul of a departed human being housed in its subtle body and transcribed to our mind by the appearance of an image or the hearing of a voice.</p>
			<p class="body-text">(<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">2</span>) A mental formation stamped by the thoughts and feelings of a departed human being on the atmosphere of a place or locality, wandering about there or repeating itself – till that formation either exhausts itself or is dissolved by one means or another. This is the explanation of such phenomena as the haunted house in which the scenes attending or surrounding or preceding a murder are repeated over and over again and many similar phenomena.</p>
			<p class="body-text">(<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">3</span>) A being of the lower vital planes who has assumed the discarded vital sheath of a departed human being or a fragment of his vital personality and appears and acts in the form and perhaps with the surface thoughts and memories of that person.</p>
			<p class="body-text">(<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">4</span>) A being of the lower vital plane who by the medium of a living human being or by some other means or agency is able to materialise itself sufficiently so as to appear and act in a visible form or speak with an audible voice or, without so appearing, to move about material things, e.g. furniture or to materialise objects or to shift them from place to place. This accounts for what are called poltergeists, phenomena of stone-throwing, tree-inhabiting bhūtas and other well-known phenomena.</p>
			<p class="body-text">(<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">5</span>) Apparitions which are the formations of one’s own mind but take to the senses an objective appearance.</p>
			<p class="body-text">(<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">6</span>) Temporary possession of people by vital beings who sometimes pretend to be departed relatives etc.</p>
			<p class="body-text">(<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">7</span>) Thought-images of themselves projected, often by people at the moment of death, which appear at that time or a few hours afterwards to their friends or relatives. You will see that in only one of these cases, the first, can a soul be posited and there no difficulty arises.” (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">569</span>-<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">70</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
