<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-157</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_2_-withoutred-_-_FinalforPress-157" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-157" class="SubHead1">Chitta</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“The <a id="_idIndexMarker574"></a><span class="Index">Chitta</span> is the general stuff of mental consciousness which supports Manas and everything else – it is an indeterminate consciousness which gets determined into thoughts and memories and desires and sensations and perceptions and impulses and feelings (<a id="_idIndexMarker575"></a><span class="Index">cittav</span><span class="Index">ṛ</span><span class="Index">tti</span>).</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">*</p>
			<p class="body-text">There is no special plane of chitta. Chitta in the language of the old Yogas meant the stuff of consciousness out of which thought, will, memory, emotion, desire, sensation all arise – all these are called chittavritti, movements of the chitta. It was distinguished from Chit, the higher or divine consciousness.</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">*</p>
			<p class="body-text">Usually the word [Chitta] is employed for the general surface consciousness in which thoughts, feelings, desires, emotions, sensations (these being called chittavritti) arise. There is therefore no special location. Its function is to receive the impacts of the world and give back reactions which take the form of thoughts, feelings etc.</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">*</p>
			<p class="body-text">The Chitta is not near the heart – if you mean the substance of the lower consciousness, it has no particular place. All things of this life are there in this stuff of consciousness, but the memory of past lives is wrapped up and involved elsewhere. The heart is the main centre of this consciousness for most men, so of course you may feel its activities centred on that level.</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">*</p>
			<p class="body-text">Chitta really means the ordinary consciousness including the mind, vital and physical – but practically it can be taken to mean something central in the consciousness. If that is centred in the Divine, the rest follows more or less quietly as a natural result.</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">*</p>
			<p class="body-text">The Chitta receives these things [thoughts, desires, etc.], gives them for formation to the vital and mind and all is transmitted to the Buddhi, but also it receives thoughts from the Buddhi and turns these into desires and sensations and impulses.</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">*</p>
			<p class="body-text">Yes, certainly [the Chitta must stop catching influences from outside at random] – but as its whole business is to receive from above or below or around, it cannot stop doing it, it cannot of itself determine what it shall or shall not receive. It has to be assisted by the Buddhi, vital will or some higher power. Afterwards when the higher consciousness descends it begins to be transformed and capable of an automatic rejection of what is not true or right or divine or helpful to the growth of the divine in the being.</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">*</p>
			<p class="body-text">The Chitta does not receive desires and sensations from the Buddhi. It takes thoughts from the Buddhi and turns them into desires.</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">*</p>
			<p class="body-text">There is always or generally at least a modifying reaction [to thoughts, desires etc. from outside] in the chitta – except when it simply receives and stores without passing them on to the instruments.</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">*</p>
			<p class="body-text">If the word <a id="_idIndexMarker576"></a><span class="Index">v</span><span class="Index">ā</span><span class="Index">san</span><span class="Index">ā</span> is used in the original [the Yogavasishtha], it does not mean “desire”. It means usually the idea or mental feeling rising from the chitta, imaginations, impressions, memories etc., impressions of liking and disliking, of pain and pleasure. What Vasishtha wants to say is that while the ideas, impressions, impulsions that lead to action in an ordinary man rise from the chitta, those that rise in the Jivanmukta come straight from the sattva – from the essential consciousness of the being – in other words they are not mental but spiritual formations. As one might say, instead of cittavṛtti they are <a id="_idIndexMarker577"></a>sattvapreraṇā, direct indications from the inner being of what is to be thought, felt or done. When the chitta is no longer active and the mind silent – which happens when the mukti comes and no one can be <a id="_idIndexMarker578"></a><span class="Index">Jivanmukta</span> without that – then what remains and perceives and does things is felt as an essential consciousness, the consciousness of the true self or true being.</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">*</p>
			<p class="body-text">There is a subconscient action of the chitta which keeps the past impression of things and sends up forms of them to the consciousness in dream or else keeps the habit of old movements and sends up these whenever it finds an opportunity.</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">*</p>
			<p class="body-text">The chitta is the consciousness out of which all is formed, but the formation is made by the mind or vital or other force – which are, as it were, the instruments of the chitta for self-expression.” (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">170</span>-<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">73</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
