<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-346</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_2_-withoutred-_-_FinalforPress-346" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-346" class="SubHead1">What Is Fate?</h2>
			<p class="savitri-text">“<a id="_idIndexMarker1016"></a><span class="Index">Fate</span> is Truth working out in Ignorance.<br />O King, thy fate is a transaction done<br />At every hour between Nature and thy soul<br />With God for its foreseeing arbiter.<br />Fate is a balance drawn in Destiny’s book.<br />Man can accept his fate, he can refuse.<br />Even if the One maintains the unseen decree<br />He writes thy refusal in thy credit page:<br />For doom is not a close, a mystic seal.<br />Arisen from the tragic crash of life,<br />Arisen from the body’s torture and death,<br />The spirit rises mightier by defeat;<br />Its godlike wings grow wider with each fall.<br />Its splendid failures sum to victory.<br />O man, the events that meet thee on thy road,<br />Though they smite thy body and soul with joy and grief,<br />Are not thy fate, – they touch thee awhile and pass;<br />Even death can cut not short thy spirit’s walk:<br />Thy goal, the road thou choosest are thy fate.<br />On the altar throwing thy thoughts, thy heart, thy works,<br />Thy fate is a long sacrifice to the gods<br />Till they have opened to thee thy secret self<br />And made thee one with the indwelling God.<br />O soul, intruder in Nature’s ignorance,<br />Armed traveller to the unseen supernal heights,<br />Thy spirit’s fate is a battle and ceaseless march<br />Against invisible opponent Powers,<br />A passage from Matter into timeless self.<br />Adventurer through blind unforeseeing Time,<br />A forced advance through a long line of lives,<br />It pushes its spearhead through the centuries.<br />Across the dust and mire of the earthly plain,<br />On many guarded lines and dangerous fronts,<br />In dire assaults, in wounded slow retreats,<br />Holding the ideal’s ringed and battered fort<br />Or fighting against odds in lonely posts,<br />Or camped in night around the bivouac’s fires<br />Awaiting the tardy trumpets of the dawn,<br />In hunger and in plenty and in pain,<br />Through peril and through triumph and through fall,<br />Through life’s green lanes and over her desert sands,<br />Up the bald moor, along the sunlit ridge,<br />In serried columns with a straggling rear<br />Led by its nomad vanguard’s signal fires,<br />Marches the army of the waylost god.<br />Then late the joy ineffable is felt,<br />Then he remembers his forgotten self;<br />He has refound the skies from which he fell.<br />At length his front’s indomitable line<br />Forces the last passes of the Ignorance:<br />Advancing beyond Nature’s last known bounds,<br />Reconnoitring the formidable unknown,<br />Beyond the landmarks of things visible,<br />It mounts through a miraculous upper air<br />Till climbing the mute summit of the world<br />He stands upon the splendour-peaks of God.” (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">458</span>-<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">59</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
