<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-365</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_2_-withoutred-_-_FinalforPress-365" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-365" class="SubHead1">The Mighty Mother Reveals Herself in Savitri and Commands Death to Move Out of Her Way</h2>
			<p class="savitri-text">“And Savitri looked on Death and answered not.<br />Almost it seemed as if in his symbol shape<br />The world’s darkness had consented to Heaven-light<br />And God needed no more the Inconscient’s screen.<br />A mighty transformation came on her.<br />A halo of the indwelling Deity,<br />The Immortal’s lustre that had lit her face<br />And tented its radiance in her body’s house,<br />Overflowing made the air a luminous sea.<br />In a flaming moment of apocalypse<br />The Incarnation thrust aside its veil.<br />A little figure in infinity<br />Yet stood and seemed the Eternal’s very house,<br />As if the world’s centre was her very soul<br />And all wide space was but its outer robe.<br />A curve of the calm hauteur of far heaven<br />Descending into earth’s humility,<br />Her forehead’s span vaulted the Omniscient’s gaze,<br />Her eyes were two stars that watched the universe.<br />...........<br />Thou art my shadow and my instrument.<br />I have given thee thy awful shape of dread<br />And thy sharp sword of terror and grief and pain<br />To force the soul of man to struggle for light<br />On the brevity of his half-conscious days.<br />Thou art his spur to greatness in his works,<br />The whip to his yearning for eternal bliss,<br />His poignant need of immortality.<br />Live, Death, awhile, be still my instrument.<br />One day man too shall know thy fathomless heart<br />Of silence and the brooding peace of Night<br />And grave obedience to eternal Law<br />And the calm inflexible pity in thy gaze.<br />But now, O timeless Mightiness, stand aside<br />And leave the path of my incarnate Force.<br />Relieve the radiant God from thy black mask:<br />Release the soul of the world called Satyavan<br />Freed from thy clutch of pain and ignorance<br />That he may stand master of life and fate,<br />Man’s representative in the house of God,<br />The mate of Wisdom and the spouse of Light,<br />The eternal bridegroom of the eternal bride.” (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">664</span>-<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">66</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
