<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-325</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_2_-withoutred-_-_FinalforPress-325" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-325" class="SubHead1">The Presence of the Divine Mother Draws Close</h2>
			<p class="savitri-text">“Someone came infinite and absolute.<br />A being of wisdom, power and delight,<br />Even as a mother draws her child to her arms,<br />Took to her breast Nature and world and soul.Abolishing the signless emptiness,<br />Breaking the vacancy and voiceless hush,<br />Piercing the limitless Unknowable,<br />Into the liberty of the motionless depths<br />A beautiful and felicitous lustre stole.<br />The Power, the Light, the Bliss no word can speak<br />Imaged itself in a surprising beam<br />And built a golden passage to his heart<br />Touching through him all longing sentient things.<br />A moment’s sweetness of the All-Beautiful<br />Cancelled the vanity of the cosmic whirl.<br />...........<br />Affirming in life a hidden ecstasy<br />It held the spirit to its miraculous course;<br />Carrying immortal values to the hours<br />It justified the labour of the suns.<br />For one was there supreme behind the God.<br />A Mother Might brooded upon the world;<br />A Consciousness revealed its marvellous front<br />Transcending all that is, denying none:<br />Imperishable above our fallen heads<br />He felt a rapturous and unstumbling Force.<br />The undying Truth appeared, the enduring Power<br />Of all that here is made and then destroyed,<br />The Mother of all godheads and all strengths<br />Who, mediatrix, binds earth to the Supreme.<br />The Enigma ceased that rules our nature’s night,<br />The covering Nescience was unmasked and slain;<br />Its mind of error was stripped off from things<br />And the dull moods of its perverting will.<br />Illumined by her all-seeing identity<br />Knowledge and Ignorance could strive no more;<br />No longer could the titan Opposites,<br />Antagonist poles of the world’s artifice,<br />Impose the illusion of their twofold screen<br />Throwing their figures between us and her.<br />The Wisdom was near, disguised by its own works,<br />Of which the darkened universe is the robe.<br />No more existence seemed an aimless fall,<br />Extinction was no more the sole release.<br />The hidden Word was found, the long-sought clue,<br />Revealed was the meaning of our spirit’s birth,<br />Condemned to an imperfect body and mind,<br />In the inconscience of material things<br />And the indignity of mortal life.<br />A Heart was felt in the spaces wide and bare,<br />A burning Love from white spiritual founts<br />Annulled the sorrow of the ignorant depths;<br />Suffering was lost in her immortal smile.” (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">312</span>-<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">14</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
