<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-360</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_2_-withoutred-_-_FinalforPress-360" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-360" class="SubHead1">The Realisation of the Supreme Self by Savitri</h2>
			<p class="savitri-text">“A voice began to speak from her own heart<br />That was not hers, yet mastered thought and sense.<br />As it spoke all changed within her and without;<br />All was, all lived; she felt all being one;<br />The world of unreality ceased to be:<br />There was no more a universe built by mind,<br />Convicted as a structure or a sign;<br />A spirit, a being saw created things<br />And cast itself into unnumbered forms<br />And was what it saw and made; all now became<br />An evidence of one stupendous truth,<br />A Truth in which negation had no place,<br />A being and a living consciousness,<br />A stark and absolute Reality.<br />There the unreal could not find a place,<br />The sense of unreality was slain:<br />There all was conscious, made of the Infinite,<br />All had a substance of Eternity.<br />Yet this was the same Indecipherable;<br />It seemed to cast from it universe like a dream<br />Vanishing for ever into an original Void.<br />But this was no more some vague ubiquitous point<br />Or a cipher of vastness in unreal Nought.<br />It was the same but now no more seemed far<br />To the living clasp of her recovered soul.<br />It was her self, it was the self of all,<br />It was the reality of existing things,<br />It was the consciousness of all that lived<br />And felt and saw; it was Timelessness and Time,<br />It was the Bliss of formlessness and form.<br />It was all Love and the one Beloved’s arms,<br />It was sight and thought in one all-seeing Mind,<br />It was joy of Being on the peaks of God.<br />She passed beyond Time into eternity,<br />Slipped out of space and became the Infinite;<br />Her being rose into unreachable heights<br />And found no end of its journey in the Self.<br />It plunged into the unfathomable deeps<br />And found no end to the silent mystery<br />That held all world within one lonely breast,<br />Yet harboured all creation’s multitudes.<br />She was all vastness and one measureless point,<br />She was a height beyond heights, a depth beyond depths,<br />She lived in the everlasting and was all<br />That harbours death and bears the wheeling hours.<br />All contraries were true in one huge spirit<br />Surpassing measure, change and circumstance.<br />An individual, one with cosmic self<br />In the heart of the Transcendent’s miracle<br />And the secret of World-personality<br />Was the creator and the lord of all.<br />Mind was a single innumerable look<br />Upon himself and all that he became.<br />Life was his drama and the Vast a stage,<br />The universe was his body, God its soul.<br />All was one single immense reality,<br />All its innumerable phenomenon.” (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">554</span>-<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">56</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
