<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-213</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_2_-withoutred-_-_FinalforPress-213" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-213" class="SubHead1">Acceptance of the <a id="_idIndexMarker754"></a><span class="Index">Guru</span>*</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“The Guru should be accepted in all ways – transcendent, impersonal, personal.” (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">190</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“There are three conditions for a disciple for profiting fully from his relation to a spiritual guide.</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">1</span>st: He must accept him entirely and him alone without submitting himself to any contrary or second influence.</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">2</span>nd: He must accept the indications given by the Guru and follow them firmly and with full faith and perseverance to the best of his own spiritual capacity.</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">3</span>rd: He must make himself open and receptive to the Guru for even more than what the Guru teaches to the mind of the disciple, it is what he spiritually is, the spiritual consciousness, the knowledge, the light, the power, the Divinity in him that helps the disciple to grow by his receiving that into himself and its being used within himself for the growth of his consciousness and nature into its own divine possibility.” (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">190</span>-<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">91</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“Up to now no liberated man has objected to the Guruvada; it is usually only people who live in the mind or vital and have the pride of the mind or the arrogance of the vital that find it below their dignity to recognise a Guru.” (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">192</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“All true Gurus are the same, the one Guru, because all are the one Divine. That is a fundamental and universal truth. But there is also a truth of difference; the Divine dwells in different personalities with different minds, teachings, influences so that He may lead different disciples with their special need, character, destiny by different ways to the realisation. Because all Gurus are the same Divine, it does not follow that the disciple does well if he leaves the one meant for him to follow another. Fidelity to the Guru is demanded of every disciple, according to the Indian tradition. “All are the same” is a spiritual truth, but you cannot convert it indiscriminately into action; you cannot deal with all persons in the same way because they are the one Brahman: if one did, the result pragmatically would be an awful mess. It is a rigid mental logic that makes the difficulty but in spiritual matters mental logic easily blunders; intuition, faith, a plastic spiritual reason are here the only guides.” (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">194</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
