<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-396</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_2_-withoutred-_-_FinalforPress-396" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-396" class="SubHead1">Sri Aurobindo’s Two Loving Letters to <a id="_idIndexMarker1058"></a><span class="Index">D.K.Roy</span></h2>
			<p class="body-text">“I meant that even before I met you for the first time, I knew of you and felt at once the contact of one with whom I had that relation which declares itself constantly through many lives and followed your career (all that I could hear about it) with a close sympathy and interest. It is a feeling which is never mistaken and gives the impression of one not only close to one but part of one’s existence. The Mother had not heard of you before you came here for the first time, but even on that occasion on seeing you – though without any actual meeting – she had a sympathetic contact. The relation that is so indicated always turns out to be that of those who have been together in the past and were predestined to join again (though the past circumstances may not be known) drawn together by old ties. It was the same inward recognition in you (apart even from the deepest spiritual connection) that brought you. If the outer consciousness does not yet fully realise, it is the crust always created by a new physical birth that prevents it. But the soul knows all the while. </p>
			<p class="body-text">Your poem is very beautiful.</p>
			<p class="body-text">I am aware of the terribly trying period that is upon you as upon us just now, but you must try to stand firmly until we may come through into the sunshine hereafter.” <span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">27</span> February <span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">1935</span> (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">442</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“I have not time to write a long letter. I can write only this. You are not to leave Pondicherry by this morning’s train or at all. You have to come and see the Mother at <span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">9</span>.<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">30</span> and speak to her heart to heart. Both the Mother and myself have lavished much love and care on you and you are certainly not going to make a return like this – it is impossible. Do not believe all you hear or allow yourself to be driven off your balance by falsehoods of the kind that have been retailed to you. You do not belong to yourself and have not the right to do what you propose to do: you belong to the Divine and to myself and the Mother. I have cherished you like a friend and a son and have poured on you my force to develop your powers – until the time should come for you to make an equal development in the Yoga. We claim the right to keep you as our own here with us. Throw away this despair – rise above the provocations of others – turn back to the Mother.” <span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">16</span> May <span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">1937</span> (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">442</span>-<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">43</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
