<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-368</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_2_-withoutred-_-_FinalforPress-368" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-368" class="SubHead1">The Voice of the Radiant God – the Tempter of the Worlds</h2>
			<p class="savitri-text">“How shall earth-nature and man’s nature rise<br />To the celestial levels, yet earth abide?<br />Heaven and earth towards each other gaze<br />Across a gulf that few can cross, none touch,<br />Arriving through a vague ethereal mist<br />Out of which all things form that move in space,<br />The shore that all can see but never reach.<br />...........<br />My will, my call is there in men and things;<br />But the Inconscient lies at the world’s grey back<br />And draws to its breast of Night and Death and Sleep.<br />Imprisoned in its dark and dumb abyss<br />A little consciousness it lets escape<br />But jealous of the growing light holds back<br />Close to the obscure edges of its cave<br />As if a fond ignorant mother kept her child<br />Tied to her apron strings of Nescience.<br />The Inconscient could not read without man’s mind<br />The mystery of the world its sleep has made:<br />Man is its key to unlock a conscious door.<br />But still it holds him dangled in its grasp:<br />It draws its giant circle round his thoughts,<br />It shuts his heart to the supernal Light.<br />A high and dazzling limit shines above,<br />A black and blinding border rules below:<br />His mind is closed between two firmaments.<br />He seeks through words and images the Truth,<br />And, poring on surfaces and brute outsides<br />Or dipping cautious feet in shallow seas,<br />Even his Knowledge is an Ignorance.<br />He is barred out from his own inner depths;<br />He cannot look on the face of the Unknown.<br />How shall he see with the Omniscient’s eyes,<br />How shall he will with the Omnipotent’s force?<br />O too compassionate and eager Dawn,<br />Leave to the circling aeons’ tardy pace<br />And to the working of the inconscient Will,<br />Leave to its imperfect light the earthly race:<br />All shall be done by the long act of Time.” (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">688</span>-<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">91</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
