<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-331</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_2_-withoutred-_-_FinalforPress-331" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-331" class="SubHead1">The Voice of the Divine Mother Heard by Aswapati</h2>
			<p class="savitri-text">“A Shape was seen on threshold Mind, a Voice<br />Absolute and wise in the heart’s chambers spoke:<br />“O Son of Strength who climbst creation’s peaks,<br />No soul is thy companion in the light;<br />Alone thou standest at the eternal doors.<br />What thou hast won is thine, but ask no more.<br />O Spirit aspiring in an ignorant frame,<br />O Voice arisen from the Inconscient’s world,<br />How shalt thou speak for men whose hearts are dumb,<br />Make purblind earth the soul’s seer-vision’s home<br />Or lighten the burden of the senseless globe?<br />I am the Mystery beyond reach of mind,<br />I am the goal of the travail of the suns;<br />My fire and sweetness are the cause of life.<br />But too immense my danger and my joy.<br />Awake not the immeasurable descent,<br />Speak not my secret name to hostile Time;<br />Man is too weak to bear the Infinite’s weight.<br />Truth born too soon might break the imperfect earth.<br />Leave the all-seeing Power to hew its way:<br />In thy single vast achievement reign apart<br />Helping the world with thy great lonely days.<br />I ask thee not to merge thy heart of flame<br />In the Immobile’s wide uncaring bliss,<br />Turned from the fruitless motion of the years,<br />Deserting the fierce labour of the worlds,<br />Aloof from beings, lost in the Alone.<br />How shall thy mighty spirit brook repose<br />While Death is still unconquered on the earth<br />And Time a field of suffering and pain?<br />Thy soul was born to share the laden Force;<br />Obey thy nature and fulfil thy fate:<br />Accept the difficulty and godlike toil,<br />For the slow-paced omniscient purpose live.” (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">335</span>-<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">36</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
