<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-189</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_2_-withoutred-_-_FinalforPress-189" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-189" class="SubHead1">The <a id="_idIndexMarker684"></a><span class="Index">Avatar</span> and the <a id="_idIndexMarker685"></a><span class="Index">Vibhuti</span>*</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“The Avatar is necessary when a special work is to be done and in crises of the evolution. The Avatar is a special manifestation, while for the rest of the time it is the Divine working within the ordinary human limits as a Vibhuti.</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">*</p>
			<p class="body-text">An Avatar, roughly speaking, is one who is conscious of the presence and power of the Divine born in him or descended into him and governing from within his will and life and action; he feels identified inwardly with this divine power and presence. A Vibhuti is supposed to embody some power of the Divine and is enabled by it to act with great force in the world but that is all that is necessary to make him a Vibhuti: the power may be very great but the consciousness is not that of an inborn or indwelling Divinity. This is the distinction we can gather from the Gita which is the main authority on this subject. If we follow this distinction, we can confidently say from what is related of them that <a id="_idIndexMarker686"></a><span class="Index">Rama</span> and <a id="_idIndexMarker687"></a><span class="Index">Krishna</span> can be accepted as Avatars; <a id="_idIndexMarker688"></a><span class="Index">Buddha</span> figures as such although with a more impersonal consciousness of the Power within him; <a id="_idIndexMarker689"></a><span class="Index">Ramakrishna</span> voiced the same consciousness when he spoke of him who was Rama and who was Krishna being within him. But <a id="_idIndexMarker690"></a><span class="Index">Chaitanya</span>’s case is peculiar; for according to the accounts he ordinarily felt and declared himself a bhakta of Krishna and nothing more, but in great moments he manifested Krishna, grew luminous in mind and body and was Krishna himself and spoke and acted as the Lord. His contemporaries saw in him an Avatar of Krishna, a manifestation of the divine love. <a id="_idIndexMarker691"></a><span class="Index">Shankara</span> and <a id="_idIndexMarker692"></a><span class="Index">Vivekananda</span> were certainly Vibhutis; they cannot be reckoned as more, though as Vibhutis they were very great.</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">*</p>
			<p class="body-text">It was not my intention to question in any degree Chaitanya’s position as an Avatar of Krishna and the divine love. That character of the manifestation appears very clearly from all the accounts about him and even, if what is related about the appearance of Krishna in him from time to time is accepted, these outbursts of the splendour of the Divine Being are among the most remarkable in the story of the Avatar. As for Ramakrishna, the manifestation in him was not so intense but more many-sided and fortunately there can be no doubt about the authenticity of the details of his talk and actions since they have been recorded from day to day by so competent an observer as Mahendranath Gupta. I would not care to enter into any comparison as between these two great spiritual personalities; both exercised an extraordinary influence and did something supreme in their own sphere.” (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">485</span>-<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">86</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
