<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-273</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_2_-withoutred-_-_FinalforPress-273" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-273" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idIndexMarker910"></a><span class="Index">Accidents</span>*</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“There is no such thing as a mere accident. There is some – perhaps a very slight – unconsciousness in the physical and it is taken advantage of by these small beings of the vital physical plane – who are more mischievous than consciously hostile.</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">*</p>
			<p class="body-text">It is not a bad shakti that gets inside you and from there does these things – it is small forces from outside that amuse themselves by creating small accidents of that kind, taking advantage of some inattention or forgetfulness etc.</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">*</p>
			<p class="body-text">You are right about the accidents. It is chiefly the physical mind’s unconsciousness that makes these accidents or interventions of mischievous forces easy.</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">*</p>
			<p class="body-text">It has often been seen that when an accident takes place at a particular spot, there is a tendency for some time for other accidents to happen there. It was so with a place near Villianur some years ago. There is the same <a id="_idIndexMarker911"></a><span class="Index">tendency with suicides</span> at a particular place. It is a sort of powerful formation that remains there with or without a vital being (spirit) in charge of the formation.” (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">800</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
