<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-318</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_2_-withoutred-_-_FinalforPress-318" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-318" class="SubHead1">The <a id="_idIndexMarker1000"></a><span class="Index">World of Falsehood</span> and the <a id="_idIndexMarker1001"></a><span class="Index">Sons of Darkness</span></h2>
			<p class="savitri-text">“Assuming names divine they guide and rule.<br />Opponents of the Highest they have come<br />Out of their world of soulless thought and power<br />To serve by enmity the cosmic scheme.<br />Night is their refuge and strategic base.<br />Against the sword of Flame, the luminous Eye,<br />Bastioned they live in massive forts of gloom,<br />Calm and secure in sunless privacy:<br />No wandering ray of Heaven can enter there.<br />Armoured, protected by their lethal masks,<br />As in a studio of creative Death<br />The giant sons of Darkness sit and plan<br />The drama of the earth, their tragic stage.<br />All who would raise the fallen world must come<br />Under the dangerous arches of their power;<br />For even the radiant children of the gods<br />To darken their privilege is and dreadful right.<br />None can reach heaven who has not passed through hell.</p>
			<p class="savitri-text">This too the traveller of the worlds must dare.<br />...........<br />In this infernal realm he dared to press<br />Even into its deepest pit and darkest core,<br />Perturbed its tenebrous base, dared to contest<br />Its ancient privileged right and absolute force:<br />In Night he plunged to know her dreadful heart,<br />In Hell he sought the root and cause of Hell.<br />...........<br />A light was with him, an invisible hand<br />Was laid upon the error and the pain<br />Till it became a quivering ecstasy,<br />The shock of sweetness of an arm’s embrace.<br />He saw in Night the Eternal’s shadowy veil,<br />Knew death for a cellar of the house of life,<br />In destruction felt creation’s hasty pace,<br />Knew loss as the price of a celestial gain<br />And hell as a short cut to heaven’s gates.<br />Then in Illusion’s occult factory<br />And in the Inconscient’s magic printing-house<br />Torn were the formats of the primal Night<br />And shattered the stereotypes of Ignorance.<br />Alive, breathing a deep spiritual breath,<br />Nature expunged her stiff mechanical code<br />And the articles of the bound soul’s contract,<br />Falsehood gave back to Truth her tortured shape.</p>
			<p class="savitri-text">Annulled were the tables of the law of Pain,<br />And in their place grew luminous characters.<br />...........<br />Then life beat pure in the corporeal frame;<br />The infernal Gleam died and could slay no more.<br />Hell split across its huge abrupt façade<br />As if a magic building were undone,<br />Night opened and vanished like a gulf of dream.<br />Into being’s gap scooped out as empty Space<br />In which she had filled the place of absent God,<br />There poured a wide intimate and blissful Dawn;<br />Healed were all things that Time’s torn heart had made<br />And sorrow could live no more in Nature’s breast:<br />Division ceased to be, for God was there.<br />The soul lit the conscious body with its ray,<br />Matter and spirit mingled and were one.” (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">226</span>-<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">32</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
