<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-274</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_2_-withoutred-_-_FinalforPress-274" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-274" class="SubHead1">Causes of <a id="_idIndexMarker912"></a><span class="Index">Collapse in Yoga</span></h2>
			<p class="body-text">“As to X’s collapse, I did not intend to say anything about it just now, – for mental discussion of causes and consequences is not of much help at this juncture. I must say however that it is not the push for union with the Divine nor is it the Divine Force that leads to madness – it is the way in which people themselves act with regard to their claim for these things. To be more precise, I have never known a case of collapse in Yoga – as opposed to mere difficulty or negative <a id="_idIndexMarker913"></a><span class="Index">failure</span>, – a case of dramatic disaster in which there was not one of three causes, or more than one of the three at work. First, some sexual aberration – I am not speaking of mere sexuality which can be very strong in the nature without leading to collapse – or an attempt to sexualise spiritual experience on an animal or gross material basis; second, an exaggerated ambition, pride or vanity trying to seize on spiritual force or experience and turn it to one’s own glorification – ending in megalomania; third, an unbalanced vital and a weak nervous system apt to follow its own imaginations and unruled impulses without any true mental will or strong vital will to steady or restrain it, and so at the mercy of the imaginations and suggestions of the adverse vital world when carried over the border into the intermediate zone of which I spoke in a recent message. All the cases of collapse in this Asram have been due to these three causes – to the first two mostly. Only three or four of them have ended in madness – and in these the sexual aberration was invariably present; usually a violent fall from the Way is the consequence. X’s is no exception to the rule. It is not because she pushed for union with the Divine that she went mad, but because she misused what came down for a mystic sexuality and the satisfaction of megalomaniac pride, in spite of my repeated and insistent warnings. For the moment that is all the light I can give on the matter – naturally I generalise and avoid details.” (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">809</span>-<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">10</span>)</p>
		</div>
		<div class="_idGenObjectLayout-1">
			<div id="_idContainer026">
			</div>
		</div>
		<div id="_idContainer027" class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<p class="Headline">Volume 32<br />The Mother with Letters on the Mother</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
