<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-138</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_2_-withoutred-_-_FinalforPress-138" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-138" class="SubHead1">The <a id="_idIndexMarker490"></a><span class="Index">Jivatman</span>, <a id="_idIndexMarker491"></a><span class="Index">Spark-Soul</span> and <a id="_idIndexMarker492"></a><span class="Index">Psychic Being</span></h2>
			<p class="body-text">“The soul, representative of the central being, is a spark of the Divine supporting all individual existence in Nature; the psychic being is a conscious form of that soul growing in the evolution – in the persistent process that develops first life in matter, mind in life, until finally mind can develop into overmind and overmind into the supramental Truth. The soul supports the nature in its evolution through these grades, but is itself not any of these things.</p>
			<p class="body-text">The lower Nature, <a id="_idIndexMarker493"></a><span class="Index">Apara Prakriti</span>, is this external objective and superficial subjective apparent Nature which manifests all these minds, lives and bodies. The supreme Nature, <a id="_idIndexMarker494"></a><span class="Index">Para Prakriti</span>, concealed behind it is the very nature of the Divine – a supreme Consciousness-Force which manifests the multiple Divine as the Many. These Many are in themselves eternal selves of the Supreme in his supreme Nature, Para Prakriti. Here in relation to this world they appear as the Jivatmas supporting the evolution of the natural existences, sarvabhūtāni, in the mutable Becoming which is the life of the <a id="_idIndexMarker495"></a><span class="Index">Kshara</span> (mobile or mutable) Purusha. The Jiva (= Jivatma) and the creatures, sarvabhūtāni, are not the same thing. The Jivatmas really stand above the creation even though in it, the natural existences, sarvabhūtāni, are the creatures of Nature. Man, bird, beast, reptile are natural existences, but the individual self in them is not even for a moment characteristically man, bird, beast or reptile; in its evolution it is the same through all these changes, a spiritual being that consents to the play of Nature.</p>
			<p class="body-text">What is original and eternal for ever in the Divine is the <a id="_idIndexMarker496"></a><span class="Index">Being</span>, what is developed in consciousness, conditions, forces, forms, etc., by the Divine Power is the <a id="_idIndexMarker497"></a><span class="Index">Becoming</span>. The eternal Divine is the Being, the universe in Time and all that is apparent in it is a Becoming. The eternal Being in its superior nature, Para Prakriti, is at once One and Many; but the eternal Multiplicity of the Divine when it stands behind the created existences, sarvabhūtāni, appears as (or as we say, becomes) the Jiva. That is the meaning of the parā prakṛtir jīvabhūtā. In the psychic on the other hand there are two aspects, the psychic existence or soul behind and in front the form of individuality it takes in its evolution in Nature.</p>
			<p class="body-text">The soul or psychic is immutable only in the sense that it contains all the possibility of the Divine within it, but this it has to evolve and in its evolution it assumes the form of a developing psychic individual evolving in the manifestation the individual Prakriti and taking part in the evolution. It is the spark of the Divine Fire that grows behind the mind, vital and physical by means of the psychic being until it is able to transform the Prakriti of Ignorance into a Prakriti of Knowledge. This evolving psychic being is not therefore at any time all that the soul or essential psychic existence bears within it; it temporalises and individualises what is eternal in potentiality, transcendent in essence in this projection of the spirit.</p>
			<p class="body-text">The <a id="_idIndexMarker498"></a>central being is the being which presides over the different births one after the other but is itself unborn, for it does not descend into the being but is above it – it holds together the mental, vital and physical being and all the various parts of the personality and it controls the life either through the mental being and the mental thought and will or through the psychic, whichever may happen to be most in front or most powerful in action. If it does not exercise its control, then the consciousness is in great disorder and every part of the personality acts for itself so that there is no coherence in the thought, feelings or action.</p>
			<p class="body-text">The psychic is not above, but behind – its seat is behind the heart; its power is not knowledge but an essential or spiritual feeling – it has the clearest sense of the truth and a sort of inherent perception of it which is of the nature of soul-feeling. It is our inmost being and supports all the others, mental, vital, physical, but it is also much veiled by them and has to act upon them as an influence rather than by its sovereign right of direct action; its direct action becomes normal and preponderant only at a high stage of development or by Yoga. It is not the psychic being which, you feel, gives you the intuitions of things to be or warns you against the results of certain actions; that is some part of the inner being, sometimes the inner mental, sometimes the inner vital, sometimes, it may be, the inner or subtle physical Purusha. The <a id="_idIndexMarker499"></a>inner being – inner mind, inner vital, inner or subtle physical – knows much that is unknown to the outer mind, the outer vital, the outer physical, for it is in a more direct contact with the secret forces of Nature. The psychic is the inmost being of all; a perception of truth which is inherent in the deepest substance of the consciousness, a sense of the good, true, beautiful, the Divine, is its privilege.</p>
			<p class="body-text">The central being – the Jivatman which is not born nor evolves, but presides over the individual birth and evolution – puts forward a representative of himself on each plane of the consciousness. On the mental plane it is the <a id="_idIndexMarker500"></a><span class="Index">true mental being</span>, <a id="_idIndexMarker501"></a><span class="Index">manomaya puru</span><span class="Index">ṣ</span><span class="Index">a</span>, on the vital plane the <a id="_idIndexMarker502"></a><span class="Index">true vital being</span>, <a id="_idIndexMarker503"></a><span class="Index">pr</span><span class="Index">āṇ</span><span class="Index">amaya puru</span><span class="Index">ṣ</span><span class="Index">a</span>, on the physical plane the <a id="_idIndexMarker504"></a><span class="Index">true physical being</span>, <a id="_idIndexMarker505"></a><span class="Index">annamaya puru</span><span class="Index">ṣ</span><span class="Index">a</span>. Each being therefore is, so long as the Ignorance lasts, centred round his mental, vital or physical Purusha, according to the plane on which he predominantly lives, and that is to him his central being. But the true representative all the time is concealed behind the mind, vital and physical – it is the psychic, our inmost being. </p>
			<p class="body-text">When the inmost knowledge begins to come, we become aware of the psychic being within us and it comes forward and leads the sadhana. We become aware also of the Jivatman, the individual Self or Spirit above the manifestation of which the psychic is the representative here.” (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">57</span>-<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">60</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“The phrase “<a id="_idIndexMarker506"></a><span class="Index">central being</span>” in our Yoga is usually applied to the portion of the Divine in us which supports all the rest and survives through death and birth. This central being has two forms – above, it is the Jivatman, our true being, of which we become aware when the higher self-knowledge comes, – below, it is the psychic being which stands behind mind, body and life. The Jivatman is above the manifestation in life and presides over it; the psychic being stands behind the manifestation in life and supports it.</p>
			<p class="body-text">The natural attitude of the psychic being is to feel itself as the child, the son of God, the Bhakta; it is a portion of the Divine, one in essence, but in the dynamics of the manifestation there is always even in identity a difference. The Jivatman, on the contrary, lives in the essence and can merge itself in identity with the Divine; but it too, the moment it presides over the dynamics of the manifestation, knows itself as one centre of the multiple Divine, not as the Parameshwara. It is important to remember this distinction; for, otherwise, if there is the least vital egoism, one may begin to think of oneself as an Avatara or lose balance like <a id="_idIndexMarker507"></a>Hriday with Ramakrishna.” (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">61</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“The <a id="_idIndexMarker508"></a><span class="Index">central being</span> is that on which all the others depend. If it makes its surrender, that is, renounces its separate fulfilment in order to be an instrument of the Divine, then it is easier for the mental, vital and physical to surrender.</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">*</p>
			<p class="body-text">It [the central being’s surrender to the Divine] has nothing to do with suitable circumstances. If the will of the central being turns towards union with the Divine, then it renounces its separate fulfilment.” (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">61</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“The <a id="_idIndexMarker509"></a><span class="Index">Jivatman</span>, <a id="_idIndexMarker510"></a><span class="Index">spark-soul</span> and <a id="_idIndexMarker511"></a><span class="Index">psychic being</span> are three different forms of the same reality and they must not be mixed up together, as that confuses the clearness of the inner experience.</p>
			<p class="body-text">The Jivatman or spirit is self-existent above the manifested or instrumental being – it is superior to birth and death, always the same; it is the individual self or Atman, the eternal true being of the individual.</p>
			<p class="body-text">The soul is a spark of the Divine in the heart of the living creatures of Nature. It is not seated above the manifested being; it enters into the manifestation of the self, consents to be a part of its natural phenomenal becoming, supports its evolution in the world of material Nature. It carries with it at first an undifferentiated power of the divine consciousness, containing all possibilities, but at first unevolved possibilities, which have not yet taken form but to which it is the function of evolution to give form. This spark of Divinity is there in all terrestrial living beings from the earth’s highest to its lowest creatures.</p>
			<p class="body-text">The psychic being is a spiritual personality put forward by the soul in its evolution; its growth marks the stage which the spiritual evolution of the individual has reached and its immediate possibilities for the future. It stands behind the mental, the vital, the physical nature, grows by their experiences, carries the consciousness from life to life. It is the psychic Person, <a id="_idIndexMarker512"></a><span class="Index">caitya puru</span><span class="Index">ṣ</span><span class="Index">a</span>. At first it is veiled by the mental, vital and physical parts, limited by them in its self-expression by their limitations, bound to the reactions of Nature, but, as it grows, it becomes capable of coming forward and dominating the mind, life and body. In the ordinary man it still depends on them for expression and is not able to take them up and freely use them. The life of the being is animal and human, not divine. When the psychic being can by sadhana become dominant and freely use its instruments, then the impulse towards the Divine becomes complete and the transformation of mind, vital and body, not merely their liberation, becomes possible.</p>
			<p class="body-text">As the Self or Atman is free and superior to birth and death, the experience of the Jivatman and its unity with the supreme or universal Self is sufficient to bring the sense of liberation; but for the transformation of the life and nature the full awareness and awakening of our psychic being also is indispensable.</p>
			<p class="body-text">The psychic being realises at this stage its oneness with the true being, the Self, but it does not disappear or change into it; it remains as its instrument for psychic and spiritual self-expression, a divine manifestation in Nature.</p>
			<p class="body-text">The <a id="_idIndexMarker513"></a><span class="Index">bindu</span> seen by you above may be a symbolic way of seeing the Jivatman, the individual self as a drop of the Sea, an individual portion of the universal Divine; the aspiration on that level would naturally be for the opening of the higher consciousness so that the being may dwell there and not in the ignorance. The Jivatman is already one with the Divine in reality, but its spiritual demand may be for the rest of the consciousness also to realise it.</p>
			<p class="body-text">The aspiration of the psychic being would then translate this demand entirely for the opening of the whole lower nature, mind, vital, body to the Divine, for the love and union with the Divine, for its presence and power within the heart, for the transformation of the mind, life and body by the descent of the higher consciousness into this instrumental being and nature.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Both aspirations are necessary for the fullness of this Yoga, the demand of the self on the nature from above, the psychic aspiration of the nature from below. When the psychic imposes its aspiration on the mind, vital and body, then they too aspire and this is what was felt by you as the aspiration from the level of the lower being. The aspiration felt above is that of the Jivatman for the higher consciousness with its realisation of the One to manifest in all the being. Both aspirations help and are necessary to each other. But the seeking of the lower being is at first intermittent and oppressed by the obscurity and limitations of the ordinary consciousness. It has by sadhana to become clear, constant, strong and enduring; it then compels realisation, makes it inevitable.</p>
			<p class="body-text">The sense of peace, purity and calm felt by you is brought about by a union or strong contact of the lower with the higher consciousness; it cannot be permanent at first, but it can become so by an increased frequency and durability of the calm and peace and finally by the full descent of the eternal peace and calm and silence of the higher consciousness into the lower nature.” (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">64</span>-<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">66</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
