<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-338</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_2_-withoutred-_-_FinalforPress-338" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-338" class="SubHead1">Satyavan and Savitri</h2>
			<p class="savitri-text">“In a wide moment of two souls that meet<br />She felt her being flow into him as in waves<br />A river pours into a mighty sea.<br />As when a soul is merging into God<br />To live in Him for ever and know His joy,<br />Her consciousness grew aware of him alone<br />And all her separate self was lost in his.<br />As a starry heaven encircles happy earth,<br />He shut her into himself in a circle of bliss<br />And shut the world into himself and her.<br />A boundless isolation made them one;<br />He was aware of her enveloping him<br />And let her penetrate his very soul<br />As is a world by the world’s spirit filled,<br />As the mortal wakes into Eternity,<br />As the finite opens to the Infinite.<br />Thus were they in each other lost awhile,<br />Then drawing back from their long ecstasy’s trance<br />Came into a new self and a new world.<br />Each now was a part of the other’s unity,<br />The world was but their twin self-finding’s scene<br />Or their own wedded being’s vaster frame.<br />...........<br />Then moved by the deep joy she could not speak,<br />A little depth of it quivering in her words,<br />Her happy voice cried out to Satyavan:<br />“My heart will stay here on this forest verge<br />And close to this thatched roof while I am far:<br />Now of more wandering it has no need.<br />But I must haste back to my father’s house<br />Which soon will lose one loved accustomed tread<br />And listen in vain for a once cherished voice.<br />For soon I shall return nor ever again<br />Oneness must sever its recovered bliss<br />Or fate sunder our lives while life is ours.” (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">410</span>-<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">12</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
