<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-350</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_2_-withoutred-_-_FinalforPress-350" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-350" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idIndexMarker1018"></a><span class="Index">Durga</span>: The Madonna of Might</h2>
			<p class="savitri-text">“Here on a boulder carved like a huge throne<br />A Woman sat in gold and purple sheen,<br />Armed with the trident and the thunderbolt,<br />Her feet upon a couchant lion’s back.<br />A formidable smile curved round her lips,<br />Heaven-fire laughed in the corners of her eyes;<br />Her body a mass of courage and heavenly strength,<br />She menaced the triumph of the nether gods.<br />A halo of lightnings flamed around her head<br />And sovereignty, a great cestus, zoned her robe<br />And majesty and victory sat with her<br />Guarding in the wide cosmic battlefield<br />Against the flat equality of Death<br />And the all-levelling insurgent Night<br />The hierarchy of the ordered Powers,<br />The high changeless values, the peaked eminences,<br />The privileged aristocracy of Truth,<br />And in the governing Ideal’s sun<br />The triumvirate of wisdom, love and bliss<br />And the sole autocracy of the absolute Light.<br />August on her seat in the inner world of Mind,<br />The Mother of Might looked down on passing things,<br />Listened to the advancing tread of Time,<br />Saw the irresistible wheeling of the suns<br />And heard the thunder of the march of God.<br />Amid the swaying Forces in their strife<br />Sovereign was her word of luminous command,<br />Her speech like a war-cry rang or a pilgrim chant.<br />A charm restoring hope in failing hearts<br />Aspired the harmony of her puissant voice:<br />“O Savitri, I am thy secret soul.<br />I have come down into the human world<br />And the movement watched by an unsleeping Eye<br />And the dark contrariety of earth’s fate<br />And the battle of the bright and sombre Powers.<br />I stand upon earth’s paths of danger and grief<br />And help the unfortunate and save the doomed.<br />To the strong I bring the guerdon of their strength,<br />To the weak I bring the armour of my force;<br />To men who long I carry their coveted joy:<br />I am fortune justifying the great and wise<br />By the sanction of the plaudits of the crowd,<br />Then trampling them with the armed heel of fate.<br />My ear is leaned to the cry of the oppressed,<br />I topple down the thrones of tyrant kings:<br />A cry comes from proscribed and hunted lives<br />Appealing to me against a pitiless world,<br />A voice of the forsaken and desolate<br />And the lone prisoner in his dungeon cell.<br />Men hail in my coming the Almighty’s force<br />Or praise with thankful tears his saviour Grace.<br />I smite the Titan who bestrides the world<br />And slay the ogre in his blood-stained den.<br />I am Durga, goddess of the proud and strong,<br />And Lakshmi, queen of the fair and fortunate;<br />I wear the face of Kali when I kill,<br />I trample the corpses of the demon hordes.<br />I am charged by God to do his mighty work,<br />Uncaring I serve his will who sent me forth,<br />Reckless of peril and earthly consequence.<br />I reason not of virtue and of sin<br />But do the deed he has put into my heart.<br />I fear not for the angry frown of Heaven,<br />I flinch not from the red assault of Hell;<br />I crush the opposition of the gods,<br />Tread down a million goblin obstacles.<br />I guide man to the path of the Divine<br />And guard him from the red Wolf and the Snake.<br />I set in his mortal hand my heavenly sword<br />And put on him the breastplate of the gods.<br />I break the ignorant pride of human mind<br />And lead the thought to the wideness of the Truth;<br />I rend man’s narrow and successful life<br />And force his sorrowful eyes to gaze at the sun<br />That he may die to earth and live in his soul.<br />I know the goal, I know the secret route;<br />I have studied the map of the invisible worlds;<br />I am the battle’s head, the journey’s star.<br />But the great obstinate world resists my Word,<br />And the crookedness and evil in man’s heart<br />Is stronger than Reason, profounder than the Pit,<br />And the malignancy of hostile Powers<br />Puts craftily back the clock of destiny<br />And mightier seems than the eternal Will.<br />The cosmic evil is too deep to unroot,<br />The cosmic suffering is too vast to heal.<br />A few I guide who pass me towards the Light;<br />A few I save, the mass falls back unsaved;<br />A few I help, the many strive and fail.<br />But my heart I have hardened and I do my work:<br />Slowly the light grows greater in the East,<br />Slowly the world progresses on God’s road.<br />His seal is on my task, it cannot fail:<br />I shall hear the silver swing of heaven’s gates<br />When God comes out to meet the soul of the world.” (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">508</span>-<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">10</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
