<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-327</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_2_-withoutred-_-_FinalforPress-327" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-327" class="SubHead1">Aswapati’s Heart’s Demand Grows Immeasurable: His Soul Freed and Given to the Divine Mother Alone</h2>
			<p class="savitri-text">“All he had done was to prepare a field;<br />His small beginnings asked for a mighty end:<br />For all that he had been must now new-shape<br />In him her joy to embody, to enshrine<br />Her beauty and greatness in his house of life.<br />But now his being was too wide for self;<br />His heart’s demand had grown immeasurable:<br />His single freedom could not satisfy,<br />Her light, her bliss he asked for earth and men.<br />But vain are human power and human love<br />To break earth’s seal of ignorance and death;<br />His nature’s might seemed now an infant’s grasp;<br />Heaven is too high for outstretched hands to seize.<br />This Light comes not by struggle or by thought;<br />In the mind’s silence the Transcendent acts<br />And the hushed heart hears the unuttered Word.<br />A vast surrender was his only strength.<br />A Power that lives upon the heights must act,<br />Bring into life’s closed room the Immortal’s air<br />And fill the finite with the Infinite.<br />All that denies must be torn out and slain<br />And crushed the many longings for whose sake<br />We lose the One for whom our lives were made.<br />Now other claims had hushed in him their cry:<br />Only he longed to draw her presence and power<br />Into his heart and mind and breathing frame;<br />Only he yearned to call for ever down<br />Her healing touch of love and truth and joy<br />Into the darkness of the suffering world.<br />His soul was freed and given to her alone.” (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">315</span>-<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">16</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
