<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-361</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_2_-withoutred-_-_FinalforPress-361" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-361" class="SubHead1">The <a id="_idIndexMarker1025"></a><span class="Index">Gospel of Death</span> and Vanity of the Idea: Savitri’s Answer to Death</h2>
			<p class="savitri-text">“A dangerous music now thou findst, O Death,<br />Melting thy speech into harmonious pain,<br />And flut’st alluringly to tired hopes<br />Thy falsehoods mingled with sad strains of truth.<br />But I forbid thy voice to slay my soul.<br />My love is not a hunger of the heart,<br />My love is not a craving of the flesh;<br />It came to me from God, to God returns.<br />Even in all that life and man have marred,<br />A whisper of divinity still is heard,<br />A breath is felt from the eternal spheres.<br />Allowed by Heaven and wonderful to man<br />A sweet fire-rhythm of passion chants to love.<br />There is a hope in its wild infinite cry;<br />It rings with callings from forgotten heights,<br />And when its strains are hushed to high-winged souls<br />In their empyrean, its burning breath<br />Survives beyond, the rapturous core of suns<br />That flame for ever pure in skies unseen,<br />A voice of the eternal Ecstasy.<br />One day I shall behold my great sweet world<br />Put off the dire disguises of the gods,<br />Unveil from terror and disrobe from sin.<br />Appeased we shall draw near our mother’s face,<br />We shall cast our candid souls upon her lap;<br />Then shall we clasp the ecstasy we chase,<br />Then shall we shudder with the long-sought god,<br />Then shall we find Heaven’s unexpected strain.<br />Not only is there hope for godheads pure;<br />The violent and darkened deities<br />Leaped down from the one breast in rage to find<br />What the white gods had missed: they too are safe;<br />A mother’s eyes are on them and her arms<br />Stretched out in love desire her rebel sons.<br />One who came love and lover and beloved<br />Eternal, built himself a wondrous field<br />And wove the measures of a marvellous dance.<br />There in its circles and its magic turns<br />Attracted he arrives, repelled he flees.<br />In the wild devious promptings of his mind<br />He tastes the honey of tears and puts off joy<br />Repenting, and has laughter and has wrath,<br />And both are a broken music of the soul<br />Which seeks out reconciled its heavenly rhyme.<br />Ever he comes to us across the years<br />Bearing a new sweet face that is the old.<br />His bliss laughs to us or it calls concealed<br />Like a far-heard unseen entrancing flute<br />From moonlit branches in the throbbing woods,<br />Tempting our angry search and passionate pain.<br />Disguised the Lover seeks and draws our souls.<br />He named himself for me, grew Satyavan.<br />For we were man and woman from the first,<br />The twin souls born from one undying fire.<br />Did he not dawn on me in other stars?<br />How has he through the thickets of the world<br />Pursued me like a lion in the night<br />And come upon me suddenly in the ways<br />And seized me with his glorious golden leap!<br />Unsatisfied he yearned for me through time,<br />Sometimes with wrath and sometimes with sweet peace<br />Desiring me since first the world began.<br />He rose like a wild wave out of the floods<br />And dragged me helpless into seas of bliss.<br />Out of my curtained past his arms arrive;<br />They have touched me like the soft persuading wind,<br />They have plucked me like a glad and trembling flower,<br />And clasped me happily burned in ruthless flame.<br />I too have found him charmed in lovely forms<br />And run delighted to his distant voice<br />And pressed to him past many dreadful bars.<br />If there is a yet happier greater god,<br />Let him first wear the face of Satyavan<br />And let his soul be one with him I love;<br />So let him seek me that I may desire.<br />For only one heart beats within my breast<br />And one god sits there throned. Advance, O Death,<br />Beyond the phantom beauty of this world;<br />For of its citizens I am not one.<br />I cherish God the Fire, not God the Dream.” (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">612</span>-<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">14</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
