<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-186</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_2_-withoutred-_-_FinalforPress-186" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-186" class="SubHead1">The Work of the Avatar*</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“I have said that the Avatar is one who comes to open the Way for humanity to a higher consciousness – if nobody can follow the Way, then either our conception of the thing, which is also that of <a id="_idIndexMarker660"></a><span class="Index">Christ</span> and <a id="_idIndexMarker661"></a><span class="Index">Krishna</span> and <a id="_idIndexMarker662"></a><span class="Index">Buddha</span>, is all wrong or the whole life and action of the Avatar is quite futile. X seems to say that there is no way and no possibility of following, that the struggles and sufferings of the Avatar are unreal and all humbug, – there is no possibility of struggle for one who represents the Divine. Such a conception makes nonsense of the whole idea of Avatarhood – there is then no reason in it, no necessity for it, no meaning in it. The Divine being all-powerful can lift people up without bothering to come down on earth. It is only if it is part of the world-arrangement that he should take upon himself the burden of humanity and open the Way that Avatarhood has any meaning.</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">*</p>
			<p class="body-text">If the <a id="_idIndexMarker663"></a><span class="Index">Divine</span> were not in essence <a id="_idIndexMarker664"></a>omnipotent, he could not be omnipotent anywhere – whether in the supramental or anywhere else. Because he chooses to limit or determine his action by conditions, it does not make him less omnipotent. His self-limitation is itself an act of omnipotence.</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">*</p>
			<p class="body-text">Why the immortal Hell should the Divine be tied down to succeed in all his operations? What if failure suits him better and serves better the ultimate purpose? What if the gentleman in question had to be given his chance as Duryodhan was given his chance when Krishna went to him as ambassador in a last effort to avoid the massacre of Kurukshetra? What rigid primitive notions are these about the Divine! And what about my explanation of how the Divine acts through the Avatar?<span id="footnote-022-backlink"><a class="_idFootnoteLink _idGenColorInherit" href="CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-186.xhtml#footnote-022">[7]</a></span> It seems all to have gone into water.</p>
			<p class="body-text">By the way about the ass becoming an elephant – what I meant to say was that the only reason why it can’t be done is because there is no recognisable process for it. But if a process can be discovered whether by a scientist (let us say transformation or redistribution of the said ass’s atoms or molecules – or what not) or by an occultist or by a Yogi, then there is no reason why it should not be done. In other words certain conditions have been established for the game and so long as those conditions remain unchanged certain things are not done – so we say they are impossible, can’t be done. If the conditions are changed, then the same things are done or at least become licit – allowable, legal, according to the so-called laws of Nature, – and then we say they can be done. The Divine also acts according to the conditions of the game. He may change them, but he has to change them first, not proceed while maintaining the conditions to act by a series of miracles.” (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">476</span>-<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">77</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“I repeat, the Divine when he takes on the burden of terrestrial nature, takes it fully, sincerely and without any conjuring tricks or pretence. If he has something behind him which emerges always out of the coverings, it is the same thing in essence, even if greater in degree, that there is behind others – and it is to awaken that that he is there.</p>
			<p class="body-text">The <a id="_idIndexMarker665"></a><span class="Index">psychic being</span> does the same for all who are intended for the spiritual way – men need not be extraordinary beings to follow Yoga. That is the mistake you are making – to harp on greatness as if only the great can be spiritual.</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">*</p>
			<p class="body-text">An <a id="_idIndexMarker666"></a><span class="Index">Avatar</span> or <a id="_idIndexMarker667"></a><span class="Index">Vibhuti</span> have the knowledge that is necessary for their work, they need not have more. There was absolutely no reason why Buddha should know what was going on in Rome. An Avatar even does not manifest all the Divine omniscience and omnipotence; he has not come for any such unnecessary display; all that is behind him but not in the front of his consciousness. As for the Vibhuti, the Vibhuti need not even know that he is a power of the Divine. Some Vibhutis, like <a id="_idIndexMarker668"></a><span class="Index">Julius Caesar</span> for instance, have been atheists. Buddha himself did not believe in a personal God, only in some impersonal and indescribable Permanent.” (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">478</span>)</p>
			<hr class="HorizontalRule-1" />
			<div class="_idFootnotes">
				<div id="footnote-022" class="_idFootnote" epub:type="footnote">
					<p class="footnote"><a class="_idFootnoteAnchor _idGenColorInherit" href="CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-186.xhtml#footnote-022-backlink">[7]</a> The “explanation” Sri Aurobindo refers to here is probably the one presented in Essays on the Gita, First Series, Chapters XV to XVII. – Ed.</p>
				</div>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
