<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-232</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_2_-withoutred-_-_FinalforPress-232" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-232" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idIndexMarker795"></a><span class="Index">God</span>, <a id="_idIndexMarker796"></a><span class="Index">Goddesses</span> and <a id="_idIndexMarker797"></a><span class="Index">Semi-Divine Beings</span>*</h2>
			<p class="Subhead-2">(i) Narayan, Lakshmi, Etc.*</p>
			<p class="body-text">“<a id="_idIndexMarker798"></a><span class="Index">Narayana</span> is usually taken as a name of Vishnu – to the Vaishnavas he is the Supreme as Shiva is to the Shaivas. Both are cosmic Personalities of the Divine and both like Brahma have their original plane in the Overmind, although they take different forms to the human consciousness in the mental, vital and subtle physical planes.</p>
			<p class="body-text"><a id="_idIndexMarker799"></a><span class="Index">Lakshmi</span> is usually golden, not white. <a id="_idIndexMarker800"></a>Saraswati is white.</p>
			<p class="body-text">The snake is simply a symbol of Energy or Power. Narayana in your dream is clearly Vishnu as is shown by the presence of Lakshmi and the single many-hooded snake.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Vishnu or Narayana in this image which is a normal Puranic image is the Lord of the waters of Space and Time – the Preserver of the principle of the Universe which he maintains as a seed in himself even in the intervals between one creation and another. Out of that seed in his navel (the navel is the central seat of the Vital, the Life-Principle) Brahma the Creator arises in the Lotus (cosmic consciousness) which grows from it when Vishnu awakens from the inter-cyclic sleep. The <a id="_idIndexMarker801"></a><span class="Index">Snake Ananta</span> is the Energy of the cosmic manifestation of the Infinite in Space-Time.” (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">155</span>-<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">56</span>)</p>
			<p class="Subhead-2">(ii) Krishna*</p>
			<p class="body-text">“This is the <a id="_idIndexMarker802"></a><span class="Index">Krishna</span> of the Gita<span id="footnote-023-backlink"><a class="_idFootnoteLink _idGenColorInherit" href="CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-232.xhtml#footnote-023">[1]</a></span> (the boy Krishna is the Krishna of Brindavan), – Krishna bringing the spiritual knowledge, will, bhakti – and not love and bhakti alone.</p>
			<p class="body-text">The eye indicates the vision of the higher spiritual consciousness and the blue expanse indicates that consciousness.</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">*</p>
			<p class="body-text">The boy with the flute is Sri Krishna, the Lord descended into the world-play from the divine Ananda; his flute is the music of the call which seeks to transform the lower ignorant play of mortal life and bring into it and establish in its place the lila of his divine Ananda. It was the psychic being in you that heard the call and followed after it.</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">*</p>
			<p class="body-text">It is, I suppose, the image of Sri Krishna as Lord of the divine Love and Ananda – and his flute calls the physical being to awake out of the attachments of the physical world and turn to that Love and Ananda.</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">*</p>
			<p class="body-text"><a id="_idIndexMarker803"></a><span class="Index">Krishna</span> with <a id="_idIndexMarker804"></a><span class="Index">Radha</span> is the symbol of the <a id="_idIndexMarker805"></a><span class="Index">Divine Love</span>. The flute is the call of the Divine Love; the peacock is victory.</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">*</p>
			<p class="body-text">The green circular disc you saw round Venus must indeed have been the aura of Venus which is of that colour; but this was only an introduction, a first application of the suddenly developed power of vision. Afterwards what came, the blue and the violet, were another kind of seeing more important for your Yoga; both are closely associated with Krishna. Blue is his especial and significant colour, the colour of his aura when he manifests, – that is why he is called <a id="_idIndexMarker806"></a>Nil Krishna; the adjective does not mean that he was blue or dark in his physical body whether in Brindavan or Mathura or Dwarka! Violet is the radiance of Krishna’s protection, – that was why, very naturally, it brought to you a sense of peace. The Mother says that she always saw it when she was in communion with Krishna and now too constantly sees it enveloping the Asram. That this should be the first thing shown when the power of vision broke through its state of latency is very significant; it proves that you are in contact, the touch already there in your inner being and this force of presence and protection is already around you or over you as an environing influence.” (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">156</span>-<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">57</span>)</p>
			<p class="Subhead-2">(iii) Hanuman*</p>
			<p class="body-text">“<a id="_idIndexMarker807"></a><span class="Index">Hanuman</span> stands for Bhakti.</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">*</p>
			<p class="body-text">Hanuman = complete bhakti.</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">*</p>
			<p class="body-text">Hanuman is a symbol of Shakti and devotion.” (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">157</span>-<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">58</span>)</p>
			<p class="Subhead-2">(iv) Durga on a Lion*</p>
			<p class="body-text">“The lion with <a id="_idIndexMarker808"></a><span class="Index">Durga</span> on it is the symbol of the Divine Consciousness acting through a divinised physical-vital and vital-material force.</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">*</p>
			<p class="body-text">The lion is the attribute of the Goddess Durga, the conquering and protecting aspect of the Universal Mother.</p>
			<p class="body-text">The Death’s Head is the symbol of the Asura (the adversary of the gods) vanquished and killed by the Divine Power.” (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">158</span>)</p>
			<p class="Subhead-2">(v) Ganesh*</p>
			<p class="body-text">“It is according to the need or else the condition of the consciousness that these figures [of the Gods] appear in sadhana. <a id="_idIndexMarker809"></a><span class="Index">Ganesh</span> is at once the god of wisdom and the remover of obstacles.</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">*</p>
			<p class="body-text">Ganesh (among other things) is the devata of spiritual Knowledge – so as you are getting this knowledge, you saw yourself in this form, identified with Ganesh.” (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">158</span>-<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">59</span>)</p>
			<p class="Subhead-2">(vi) Kartikeya*</p>
			<p class="body-text">“The peacock is the bird of victory and <a id="_idIndexMarker810"></a><span class="Index">Kartikeya</span> the leader of the divine forces.” (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">159</span>)</p>
			<p class="Subhead-2">(vii) Buddha*</p>
			<p class="body-text">“<a id="_idIndexMarker811"></a><span class="Index">Buddha</span> stands for the conquest over the Ignorance of the lower Nature.” (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">159</span>)</p>
			<hr class="HorizontalRule-1" />
			<div class="_idFootnotes">
				<div id="footnote-023" class="_idFootnote" epub:type="footnote">
					<p class="footnote"><a class="_idFootnoteAnchor _idGenColorInherit" href="CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-232.xhtml#footnote-023-backlink">[1]</a> In a dream the correspondent saw Sri Krishna in the prime of manhood. This image disappeared and gave way to a large eye seen in a vast expanse of blue. – Ed.</p>
				</div>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
