<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-295</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_2_-withoutred-_-_FinalforPress-295" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-295" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idIndexMarker991"></a><span class="Index">Beauty</span> as an Expression of the Divine</h2>
			<p class="questions">“Why does the Mother wear rich and beautiful clothes?</p>
			<p class="body-text">Beauty is as much an expression of the Divine as Knowledge, Power or Ananda. Does anyone ask why does the Mother want to manifest the divine consciousness by knowledge or by power and not by ignorance and weakness?<span id="footnote-029-backlink"><a class="_idFootnoteLink _idGenColorInherit" href="CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-295.xhtml#footnote-029">[2]</a></span> It would not be a more absurd or meaningless question than this one put by the vital against wearing artistic and beautiful dress.” <span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">27</span> February <span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">1933</span> (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">596</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text">“... Outer things are the expression of something in the inner reality. A fine sari or a palace are expressions of the principle of beauty in things and that is their main value. The Divine Consciousness is not bound by these things and has no attachment, but it is also not bound to abstain from them if beauty in things is part of its intended action. The Mother, when the Asram was still unformed, was wearing patched cotton saris; when she took up the work, it was necessary to change her habits, so she did so.” <span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">22</span> October <span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">1935</span> (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">596</span>)</p>
			<hr class="HorizontalRule-1" />
			<div class="_idFootnotes">
				<div id="footnote-029" class="_idFootnote" epub:type="footnote">
					<p class="footnote"><a class="_idFootnoteAnchor _idGenColorInherit" href="CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-295.xhtml#footnote-029-backlink">[2]</a> The Mother also replied to this question. She wrote: “Is it your idea that the Divine should be represented on earth by poverty and ugliness?” – Ed.</p>
				</div>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
