<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-333</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_2_-withoutred-_-_FinalforPress-333" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-333" class="SubHead1">Aswapati’s Pleadings with the Divine Mother</h2>
			<p class="savitri-text">“How shall I rest content with mortal days<br />And the dull measure of terrestrial things,<br />I who have seen behind the cosmic mask<br />The glory and the beauty of thy face?<br />Hard is the doom to which thou bindst thy sons!<br />How long shall our spirits battle with the Night<br />And bear defeat and the brute yoke of Death,<br />We who are vessels of a deathless Force<br />And builders of the godhead of the race?<br />Or if it is thy work I do below<br />Amid the error and waste of human life<br />In the vague light of man’s half-conscious mind,<br />Why breaks not in some distant gleam of thee?<br />Ever the centuries and millenniums pass.<br />Where in the greyness is thy coming’s ray?<br />Where is the thunder of thy victory’s wings?<br />Only we hear the feet of passing gods.<br />A plan in the occult eternal Mind<br />Mapped out to backward and prophetic sight,<br />The aeons ever repeat their changeless round,<br />The cycles all rebuild and ever aspire.<br />All we have done is ever still to do.<br />All breaks and all renews and is the same.<br />Huge revolutions of life’s fruitless gyre,<br />The new-born ages perish like the old,<br />As if the sad Enigma kept its right<br />Till all is done for which this scene was made.<br />Too little the strength that now with us is born,<br />Too faint the light that steals through Nature’s lids,<br />Too scant the joy with which she buys our pain.<br />In a brute world that knows not its own sense,<br />Thought-racked upon the wheel of birth we live,<br />The instruments of an impulse not our own<br />Moved to achieve with our heart’s blood for price<br />Half-knowledge, half-creations that soon tire.<br />A foiled immortal soul in perishing limbs,<br />Baffled and beaten back we labour still;<br />Annulled, frustrated, spent, we still survive.<br />In anguish we labour that from us may rise<br />A larger-seeing man with nobler heart,<br />A golden vessel of the incarnate Truth,<br />The executor of the divine attempt<br />Equipped to wear the earthly body of God,<br />Communicant and prophet and lover and king.<br />I know that thy creation cannot fail:<br />For even through the mists of mortal thought<br />Infallible are thy mysterious steps,<br />And, though Necessity dons the garb of Chance,<br />Hidden in the blind shifts of Fate she keeps<br />The slow calm logic of Infinity’s pace<br />And the inviolate sequence of its will.<br />All life is fixed in an ascending scale<br />And adamantine is the evolving Law;<br />In the beginning is prepared the close.<br />This strange irrational product of the mire,<br />This compromise between the beast and god,<br />Is not the crown of thy miraculous world.” (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">341</span>-<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">43</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
