<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-416</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_2_-withoutred-_-_FinalforPress-416" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-416" class="SubHead1">Sri Aurobindo’s Own Experience and the Status of His Yoga 1918-19</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“<a id="_idIndexMarker1096"></a><span class="Index">Shuddhi</span> is the most difficult part of the whole Yoga, it is the condition of all the rest, and if that is once conquered, the real conquest is accomplished. The rest becomes a comparatively easy building on an assured basis, – it may take longer or shorter, but it can be done tranquilly and steadily. To prevent the shuddhi the lower nature in you and around you will exhaust all its efforts, and even when it cannot prevent, it will try to retard. And its strongest weapon then is, when you think you have got it, suddenly to break in on you and convince you that you have not got it, that it is far away, and so arouse disappointment, grief, loss of faith, discouragement, depression and revolt, the whole army of troubles that wait upon impure Desire. When you have once found calm, peace of mind, firm faith, equality and been able to live in it for some time, then and only then you may be sure that suddhi is founded; but you must not think it will not be disturbed. It will be, so long as your heart and prana are still capable of responding to the old movements, have still any memory and habit of vibrating to the old chords. The one thing necessary when the renewed trouble comes, is to stand back in your mind and will from it, refuse it the sanction of your higher being, even when it is raging in the lower nature. As that habit of refusal fixes itself, – at first you may not be able to do it, the buddhi may be lost in the storm, – you will find that the asuddhi, even though it still returns, becomes less violent, more and more external, until it ceases to be anything more than a faint and short-lived touch from outside and finally comes no more. That is the course it has followed with me, not only with regard to this kind of disturbance, but with regard to all imperfections. You, since you have chosen to share my Yoga for mankind, must follow the same way, undergo the same disturbances.</p>
			<p class="body-text">This is a thing which it is necessary for you to understand clearly. I myself have had for these fourteen years, and it is not yet finished, to bear all the possible typical difficulties, troubles, downfalls and backslidings that can rise in this great effort to change the whole normal human being. How else could I have been able to help or guide others on the same way? Those who join me at the present stage, must share in my burden, especially those who are themselves chosen in any degree to lead, help and guide. It may be that when I have the complete siddhi, – which I have not yet, I am only on the way to it, – then, if it be God’s will to extend very largely and rapidly my work in this body, those who come after may have the way made very easy for them. But we are the pioneers hewing our way through the jungle of the lower prakriti. It will not do for us to be cowards and shirkers and refuse the burden, to clamour for everything to be made quick and easy for us. Above all things I demand from you endurance, firmness, heroism, – the true spiritual heroism. I want strong men, I do not want emotional children. Manhood first, divinity<span id="footnote-036-backlink"><a class="_idFootnoteLink _idGenColorInherit" href="CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-416.xhtml#footnote-036">[4]</a></span> can only be built upon that. If I do not get it in those who accept my Yoga, then I shall have to understand that it is not God’s will that I should succeed. If that be so, I shall accept his will calmly. But meanwhile I go on bearing whatever burden he lays on me, meeting whatever difficulties he puts in the way of my siddhi. Personally, I am now sure of success in everything except in the <a id="_idIndexMarker1097"></a><span class="Index">kaya-siddhi</span>, which is still doubtful, and in my work. The work can only succeed if I find noble and worthy helpers, fitted for it by the same struggles and the same endurance. I expect them in you.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Again you must not expect the shuddhi or any part of the siddhi to be simultaneous and complete at once in all whom you associate with you. One may attain, others progress, others linger. You must not expect a sudden collective miracle. I have not come here to accomplish miracles, but to show, lead the way, help, on the road to a great inner change of our human nature, – the outer change in the world is only possible if and when that inner transmutation is effected and extends itself. You must not expect to establish a perfect sangha all at once and by a single leap. If you make such demands on me, I can only say that I cannot do what is not God’s will. Go forward calmly and firmly, not attached to success, not disturbed by unsuccess; my help will then not fail you.” (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">230</span>-<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">31</span>)</p>
			<hr class="HorizontalRule-1" />
			<div class="_idFootnotes">
				<div id="footnote-036" class="_idFootnote" epub:type="footnote">
					<p class="footnote"><a class="_idFootnoteAnchor _idGenColorInherit" href="CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-416.xhtml#footnote-036-backlink">[4]</a> In bengali literals – Ed.</p>
				</div>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
