<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-370</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_2_-withoutred-_-_FinalforPress-370" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-370" class="SubHead1">The Godhead is Eventually Moved to Grant All That Savitri Asked</h2>
			<p class="savitri-text">“O beautiful body of the incarnate Word,<br />Thy thoughts are mine, I have spoken with thy voice.<br />My will is thine, what thou hast chosen I choose:<br />All thou hast asked I give to earth and men.<br />All shall be written out in destiny’s book<br />By my trustee of thought and plan and act,<br />The executor of my will, eternal Time.<br />But since thou hast refused my maimless Calm<br />And turned from my termless peace in which is expunged<br />The visage of Space and the shape of Time is lost,<br />...........<br />I lay my hands upon thy soul of flame,<br />I lay my hands upon thy heart of love,<br />I yoke thee to my power of work in Time.<br />Because thou hast obeyed my timeless will,<br />Because thou hast chosen to share earth’s struggle and fate<br />And leaned in pity over earth-bound men<br />And turned aside to help and yearned to save,<br />I bind by thy heart’s passion thy heart to mine<br />And lay my splendid yoke upon thy soul.<br />Now will I do in thee my marvellous works.<br />I will fasten thy nature with my cords of strength,<br />Subdue to my delight thy spirit’s limbs<br />And make thee a vivid knot of all my bliss<br />And build in thee my proud and crystal home.<br />Thy days shall be my shafts of power and light,<br />Thy nights my starry mysteries of joy<br />And all my clouds lie tangled in thy hair<br />And all my springtides marry in thy mouth.<br />O Sun-Word, thou shalt raise the earth-soul to Light<br />And bring down God into the lives of men;<br />Earth shall be my work-chamber and my house,<br />My garden of life to plant a seed divine.<br />When all thy work in human time is done<br />The mind of earth shall be a home of light,<br />The life of earth a tree growing towards heaven,<br />The body of earth a tabernacle of God.<br />...........<br />Thou shalt bear all things that all things may change,<br />Thou shalt fill all with my splendour and my bliss,<br />Thou shalt meet all with thy transmuting soul.<br />Assailed by my infinitudes above,<br />And quivering in immensities below,<br />Pursued by me through my mind’s wall-less vast,<br />Oceanic with the surges of my life,<br />A swimmer lost between two leaping seas<br />By my outer pains and inner sweetnesses<br />Finding my joy in my opposite mysteries<br />Thou shalt respond to me from every nerve.<br />A vision shall compel thy coursing breath,<br />Thy heart shall drive thee on the wheel of works,<br />Thy mind shall urge thee through the flames of thought,<br />To meet me in the abyss and on the heights,<br />To feel me in the tempest and the calm,<br />And love me in the noble and the vile,<br />In beautiful things and terrible desire.<br />The pains of hell shall be to thee my kiss,<br />The flowers of heaven persuade thee with my touch.<br />My fiercest masks shall my attractions bring.<br />...........<br />Hearts touched by thy love shall answer to my call,<br />Discover the ancient music of the spheres<br />In the revealing accents of thy voice<br />And nearer draw to me because thou art:<br />Enamoured of thy spirit’s loveliness<br />They shall embrace my body in thy soul,<br />Hear in thy life the beauty of my laugh,<br />Know the thrilled bliss with which I made the worlds.<br />All that thou hast, shall be for others’ bliss,<br />All that thou art, shall to my hands belong.<br />I will pour delight from thee as from a jar,<br />I will whirl thee as my chariot through the ways,<br />I will use thee as my sword and as my lyre,<br />I will play on thee my minstrelsies of thought.<br />And when thou art vibrant with all ecstasy,<br />And when thou liv’st one spirit with all things,<br />Then will I spare thee not my living fires,<br />But make thee a channel for my timeless force.<br />My hidden presence led thee unknowing on<br />From thy beginning in earth’s voiceless bosom<br />Through life and pain and time and will and death,<br />Through outer shocks and inner silences<br />Along the mystic roads of Space and Time<br />To the experience which all Nature hides.<br />Who hunts and seizes me, my captive grows:<br />This shalt thou henceforth learn from thy heart-beats.<br />For ever love, O beautiful slave of God!<br />O lasso of my rapture’s widening noose,<br />Become my cord of universal love.” (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">698</span>-<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">702</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
