<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-362</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_2_-withoutred-_-_FinalforPress-362" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-362" class="SubHead1">The <a id="_idIndexMarker1026"></a><span class="Index">Mission of Savitri</span></h2>
			<p class="Subhead-2">(i)</p>
			<p class="savitri-text">“O Death, not for my heart’s sweet poignancy<br />Nor for my happy body’s bliss alone<br />I have claimed from thee the living Satyavan,<br />But for his work and mine, our sacred charge.<br />Our lives are God’s messengers beneath the stars;<br />To dwell under death’s shadow they have come<br />Tempting God’s light to earth for the ignorant race,<br />His love to fill the hollow in men’s hearts,<br />His bliss to heal the unhappiness of the world.<br />For I, the woman, am the force of God,<br />He the Eternal’s delegate soul in man.<br />My will is greater than thy law, O Death;<br />My love is stronger than the bonds of Fate:<br />Our love is the heavenly seal of the Supreme.<br />I guard that seal against thy rending hands.<br />Love must not cease to live upon the earth;<br />For Love is the bright link twixt earth and heaven,<br />Love is the far Transcendent’s angel here;<br />Love is man’s lien on the Absolute.” (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">633</span>)</p>
			<p class="Subhead-2">(ii)</p>
			<p class="savitri-text">“My heart is wiser than the Reason’s thoughts,<br />My heart is stronger than thy bonds, O Death.<br />It sees and feels the one Heart beat in all,<br />It feels the high Transcendent’s sunlike hands,<br />It sees the cosmic Spirit at its work;<br />In the dim Night it lies alone with God.<br />My heart’s strength can carry the grief of the universe<br />And never falter from its luminous track,<br />Its white tremendous orbit through God’s peace.<br />It can drink up the sea of All-Delight<br />And never lose the white spiritual touch,<br />The calm that broods in the deep Infinite.” (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">635</span>-<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">36</span>)</p>
			<p class="Subhead-2">(iii)</p>
			<p class="savitri-text">“I am not bound by thought or sense or shape;<br />I live in the glory of the Infinite,<br />I am near to the Nameless and Unknowable,<br />The Ineffable is now my household mate.<br />But standing on Eternity’s luminous brink<br />I have discovered that the world was He;<br />I have met Spirit with spirit, Self with self,<br />But I have loved too the body of my God.<br />I have pursued him in his earthly form.<br />A lonely freedom cannot satisfy<br />A heart that has grown one with every heart:<br />I am a deputy of the aspiring world,<br />My spirit’s liberty I ask for all.” (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">649</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
