<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-322</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_2_-withoutred-_-_FinalforPress-322" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-322" class="SubHead1">The Pursuit of the Unknowable</h2>
			<p class="savitri-text">“All is too little that the world can give:<br />Its power and knowledge are the gifts of Time<br />And cannot fill the spirit’s sacred thirst.<br />Although of One these forms of greatness are<br />And by its breath of grace our lives abide,<br />Although more near to us than nearness’ self,<br />It is some utter truth of what we are;<br />Hidden by its own works, it seemed far-off,<br />Impenetrable, occult, voiceless, obscure.<br />The Presence was lost by which all things have charm,<br />The Glory lacked of which they are dim signs.<br />The world lived on made empty of its Cause,<br />Like love when the beloved’s face is gone.<br />The labour to know seemed a vain strife of Mind;<br />All knowledge ended in the Unknowable:<br />The effort to rule seemed a vain pride of Will;<br />A trivial achievement scorned by Time,<br />All power retired into the Omnipotent.<br />A cave of darkness guards the eternal Light.<br />A silence settled on his striving heart;<br />Absolved from the voices of the world’s desire,<br />He turned to the Ineffable’s timeless call.<br />A Being intimate and unnameable,<br />A wide compelling ecstasy and peace<br />Felt in himself and all and yet ungrasped,<br />Approached and faded from his soul’s pursuit<br />As if for ever luring him beyond.<br />Near, it retreated; far, it called him still.<br />Nothing could satisfy but its delight:<br />Its absence left the greatest actions dull,<br />Its presence made the smallest seem divine.<br />When it was there, the heart’s abyss was filled;<br />But when the uplifting Deity withdrew,<br />Existence lost its aim in the Inane.<br />The order of the immemorial planes,<br />The godlike fullness of the instruments<br />Were turned to props for an impermanent scene.<br />But who that mightiness was he knew not yet.” (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">305</span>-<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">06</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
