<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-126</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_2_-withoutred-_-_FinalforPress-126" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-126" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idIndexMarker454"></a><span class="Index">Beauty</span> and Ananda</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“Art is a thing of beauty and beauty and Ananda are closely connected – they go together. If the <a id="_idIndexMarker455"></a><span class="Index">Ananda</span> is there, then the beauty comes out more easily – if not, it has to struggle out painfully and slowly. That is quite natural. <span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">14</span> December <span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">1936</span></p>
			<p class="star-single-center">*</p>
			<p class="body-text">Beauty is Ananda taking form – but the form need not be a physical shape. One speaks of a beautiful thought, a beautiful act, a beautiful soul. What we speak of as beauty is Ananda in manifestation; beyond manifestation beauty loses itself in Ananda or, you may say, beauty and Ananda become indistinguishably one.” <span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">14</span> March <span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">1933</span> (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">699</span>-<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">700</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“Beauty is not the same as delight, but like Love it is an expression, a form of Ananda, – created by Ananda and composed of Ananda, it conveys to the mind that delight of which it is made. Aesthetically, the delight takes the appearance of Rasa and the enjoyment of this Rasa is the mind’s and the vital’s reaction to the perception of beauty. The spiritual realisation has a sight, a perception, a feeling which is not that of the mind and vital; – it passes beyond the aesthetic limit, sees the universal beauty, sees behind the object what the eye cannot see, feels what the emotion of the heart cannot feel and passes beyond <a id="_idIndexMarker456"></a><span class="Index">Rasa</span> and <a id="_idIndexMarker457"></a><span class="Index">Bhoga</span> to pure Ananda – a thing more deep, intense, rapturous than any mental or vital or any physical rasa reaction can be. It sees the One everywhere, the Divine everywhere, the Beloved everywhere, the original bliss of existence everywhere, and all these can create an inexpressible Ananda of beauty – the beauty of the One, the beauty of the Divine, the beauty of the Beloved, the beauty of the eternal Existence in things. It can see also the beauty of forms and objects, but with a seeing other than the mind’s, other than that of a limited physical vision – what was not beautiful to the eye becomes beautiful, what was beautiful to the eye wears now a greater, marvellous and ineffable beauty. The spiritual realisation can bring the vision and the rapture of the All-Beautiful everywhere.” <span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">26</span> October <span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">1935</span> (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">700</span>-<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">01</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“<a id="_idIndexMarker458"></a><a id="_idIndexMarker459"></a><span class="Index">Love</span> and <a id="_idIndexMarker460"></a><span class="Index">Beauty</span> are powers of Ananda as Light and Knowledge are of Consciousness. Force is inherent in Consciousness and may be called part of the Divine Essence. Ananda is always there even when Sachchidananda takes on an impersonal aspect or appears as the sole essential Existence; but Love needs a Lover and Beloved, Beauty needs a manifestation to show itself. So in the same way Consciousness is always there, but Knowledge needs a manifestation to be active, there must be a Knower and a Known. That is why the distinction is made between Ananda which is of the essence and Beauty which is a power or expression of Ananda in manifestation. These are of course philosophical distinctions necessary for the mind to think about the world and the Divine.” <span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">4</span> November <span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">1935</span> (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">701</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
