<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-413</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_2_-withoutred-_-_FinalforPress-413" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-413" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idIndexMarker1093"></a><span class="Index">Sri Aurobindo’s Future Work</span> as Perceived by Him in 1912</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">15</span>th August is usually a turning point or a notable day for me personally either in sadhana or life – indirectly only for others. This time it has been very important for me. My subjective sadhana may be said to have received its final seal and something like its consummation by a prolonged realisation &amp; dwelling in Parabrahman for many hours. Since then, egoism is dead for all in me except the Annamaya Atma, – the physical self which awaits one farther realisation before it is entirely liberated from occasional visitings or external touches of the old separated existence.</p>
			<p class="body-text">My future sadhan is for life, practical knowledge &amp; shakti, – not the essential knowledge or shakti in itself which I have got already – but knowledge &amp; shakti established in the same physical self &amp; directed to my work in life. I am now getting a clearer idea of that work &amp; I may as well impart something of that idea to you; since you look to me as the centre, you should know what is likely to radiate out of that centre.</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">1</span>. To reexplain the Sanatana Dharma to the human intellect in all its parts, from a new standpoint. This work is already beginning, &amp; three parts of it are being clearly worked out. Sri Krishna has shown me the true meaning of the Vedas, not only so but he has shown me a new Science of Philology showing the process &amp; origins of human speech so that a new Nirukta can be formed &amp; the new interpretation of the Veda based upon it. He has also shown me the meaning of all in the Upanishads that is not understood either by Indians or Europeans. I have therefore to reexplain the whole Vedanta &amp; Veda in such a way that it will be seen how all religion arises out of it &amp; is one everywhere. In this way it will be proved that India is the centre of the religious life of the world &amp; its destined saviour through the Sanatana Dharma.</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">2</span>. On the basis of Vedic knowledge to establish a Yogic sadhana which will not only liberate the soul, but prepare a perfect humanity &amp; help in the restoration of the Satyayuga. That work has to begin now but will not be complete till the end of the Kali.</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">3</span>. India being the centre, to work for her restoration to her proper place in the world; but this restoration must be effected as a part of the above work and by means of Yoga applied to human means &amp; instruments, not otherwise.</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">4</span>. A perfect humanity being intended society will have to be remodelled so as to be fit to contain that perfection.” (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">177</span>-<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">78</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
