<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-345</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_2_-withoutred-_-_FinalforPress-345" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-345" class="SubHead1">Aswapati’s Query about Savitri’s Future and Narad’s Reply</h2>
			<p class="savitri-text">“Is then the spirit ruled by an outward world?<br />O seer, is there no remedy within?<br />But what is Fate if not the spirit’s will<br />After long time fulfilled by cosmic Force?<br />I deemed a mighty Power had come with her;<br />Is not that Power the high compeer of Fate?”<br />But Narad answered covering truth with truth:<br />“O Aswapati, random seem the ways<br />Along whose banks your footsteps stray or run<br />In casual hours or moments of the gods,<br />Yet your least stumblings are foreseen above.<br />Infallibly the curves of life are drawn<br />Following the stream of Time through the unknown;<br />They are led by a clue the calm immortals keep.<br />This blazoned hieroglyph of prophet morns<br />A meaning more sublime in symbols writes<br />Than sealed Thought wakes to, but of this high script<br />How shall my voice convince the mind of earth?<br />Heaven’s wiser love rejects the mortal’s prayer;<br />Unblinded by the breath of his desire,<br />Unclouded by the mists of fear and hope,<br />It bends above the strife of love with death;<br />It keeps for her her privilege of pain.<br />A greatness in thy daughter’s soul resides<br />That can transform herself and all around<br />But must cross on stones of suffering to its goal.<br />Although designed like a nectar cup of heaven,<br />Of heavenly ether made she sought this air,<br />She too must share the human need of grief<br />And all her cause of joy transmute to pain.<br />The mind of mortal man is led by words,<br />His sight retires behind the walls of Thought<br />And looks out only through half-opened doors.<br />He cuts the boundless Truth into sky-strips<br />And every strip he takes for all the heavens.<br />He stares at infinite possibility<br />And gives to the plastic Vast the name of Chance;<br />He sees the long results of an all-wise Force<br />Planning a sequence of steps in endless Time<br />But in its links imagines a senseless chain<br />Or the dead hand of cold Necessity;<br />He answers not to the mystic Mother’s heart,<br />Misses the ardent heavings of her breast<br />And feels cold rigid limbs of lifeless Law.<br />The will of the Timeless working out in Time<br />In the free absolute steps of cosmic Truth<br />He thinks a dead machine or unconscious Fate.<br />A Magician’s formulas have made Matter’s laws<br />And while they last, all things by them are bound;<br />But the spirit’s consent is needed for each act<br />And Freedom walks in the same pace with Law.<br />All here can change if the Magician choose.<br />If human will could be made one with God’s,<br />If human thought could echo the thoughts of God,<br />Man might be all-knowing and omnipotent;<br />But now he walks in Nature’s doubtful ray.<br />Yet can the mind of man receive God’s light,<br />The force of man can be driven by God’s force,<br />Then is he a miracle doing miracles.<br />For only so can he be Nature’s king.<br />It is decreed and Satyavan must die;<br />The hour is fixed, chosen the fatal stroke.<br />What else shall be is written in her soul<br />But till the hour reveals the fateful script,<br />The writing waits illegible and mute.” (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">456</span>-<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">58</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
