<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-102</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_2_-withoutred-_-_FinalforPress-102" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-102" class="SubHead1">The All-Informing Spirit Heals the Scission between Thought and Life</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“The all-informing spirit, when found in all its fullness, heals the scission between thought and life, the need of a just balance between them disappears, instead there begins a new and luminous and joyful fusion and oneness. The spirit gives us not only a greater light of truth and vision, but the breath of a greater living; for the spirit is not only the self of our consciousness and knowledge, but the great self of life. To find our self and the self of things is not to go through a rarefied ether of thought into Nirvana, but to discover the whole greatest integral power of our complete existence.” (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">246</span>-<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">47</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“The <a id="_idIndexMarker394"></a><span class="Index">poetry of Tagore</span> owes its sudden and universal success to this advantage that he gives us more of this discovery and fusion for which the mind of our age is in quest than any other creative writer of the time. His work is a constant music of the overpassing of the borders, a chant-filled realm in which the subtle sounds and lights of the truth of the spirit give new meanings to the finer subtleties of life. The objection has been made that this poetry is too subtle, too remote, goes too far away from the broad, near, present and vital actualities of terrestrial existence. <a id="_idIndexMarker395"></a><span class="Index">Yeats</span> is considered by some a poet of Celtic romance and nothing more, Tagore accused in his own country of an unsubstantial poetic philosophising, a lack of actuality, of reality of touch and force of vital insistence. But this is to mistake the work of this poetry and to mistake too in a great measure the sense of life as it must reveal itself to the greatening mind of humanity now that that mind is growing in world-knowledge and towards self-knowledge. These poets have not indeed done all that has to be done or given the complete poetic synthesis and fusion. Their work has been to create a new and deeper manner of seeing life, to build bridges of visioned light and rhythm between the infinite and eternal and the limited mind and soul and embodied life of man. The future poetry has not to stay in their achievement; it has yet to step from these first fields into new and yet greater ranges, to fathom all the depths yet unplumbed, to complete what has been left half done or not yet done, to bring all it can of the power of man’s greater self and the universal spirit into a broader and even the broadest possible all of life. That cannot and will not be achieved in its fullness at once, but to make a foundation of this new infinite range of poetic vision and creation is work enough to give greatness to a whole age.” (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">247</span>-<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">48</span>)</p>
		</div>
		<div class="_idGenObjectLayout-1">
			<div id="_idContainer016">
			</div>
		</div>
		<div id="_idContainer017" class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<p class="Headline">Volume 27<br />Letters on Poetry and Art</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
