<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-136</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_2_-withoutred-_-_FinalforPress-136" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-136" class="SubHead1">Transformation of the Gunas*</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“The three gunas become purified and refined and changed into their divine equivalents: <a id="_idIndexMarker477"></a><span class="Index">sattwa</span> becomes <a id="_idIndexMarker478"></a><span class="Index">jyoti</span><span class="Index">ḥ</span>, the authentic spiritual light; rajas becomes <a id="_idIndexMarker479"></a><span class="Index">tapas</span>, the tranquilly intense divine force; <a id="_idIndexMarker480"></a><span class="Index">tamas</span> becomes <a id="_idIndexMarker481"></a><span class="Index">ś</span><span class="Index">ama</span>, the divine quiet, rest, peace.</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">*</p>
			<p class="body-text">You cannot drive out rajas and tamas, you can only convert them and give the predominance to sattwa. Tamas and rajas disappear only when the higher consciousness not only comes down but controls everything down to the cells of the body. They then change into the divine rest and peace and the divine energy or Tapas; finally sattwa also changes into the divine Light. As for remaining quiet when tamas is there, there can also be a tamasic quiet.</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">*</p>
			<p class="body-text">The Prakriti can be psychicised and spiritualised and the gunas yet remain, but with the sattwa dominant and the rajas and tamas enlightened by the sattwa. As the transformation increases, the gunas change more and more towards their divine equivalents, but it is only when the supramental comes that there is the full change.</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">*</p>
			<p class="body-text">The transformation of the gunas is necessary for the perfection of the nature, not for liberation. <a id="_idIndexMarker482"></a><span class="Index">Liberation</span> comes by loss of ego and desire.” (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">47</span>-<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">48</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
