<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-414</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_2_-withoutred-_-_FinalforPress-414" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-414" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idIndexMarker1094"></a><span class="Index">Sri Aurobindo’s Sadhana</span> and Work as Perceived by Him in 1913</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“...the pursuance of my work to which you allude in your last (commercial) letter, [depend]<span id="footnote-035-backlink"><a class="_idFootnoteLink _idGenColorInherit" href="CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-414.xhtml#footnote-035">[3]</a></span> on the success of the struggle which is the crowning movement of my sadhana – viz the attempt to apply knowledge &amp; power to the events and happenings of the world without the necessary instrumentality of physical action. What I am attempting is to establish the normal working of the siddhis in life ie the perception of thoughts, feelings &amp; happenings of other beings &amp; in other places throughout the world without any use of information by speech or any other data. <span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">2</span>nd, the communication of the ideas &amp; feelings I select to others (individuals, groups, nations,) by mere transmission of will-power; <span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">3</span>rd, the silent compulsion on them to act according to these communicated ideas &amp; feelings; <span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">4</span>th, the determining of events, actions &amp; results of action throughout the world by pure silent will power. When I wrote to you last, I had begun the general application of these powers which God has been developing in me for the last two or three years, but, as I told you, I was getting badly beaten. This is no longer the case, for in the <span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">1</span>st, <span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">2</span>nd &amp; even in <span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">3</span>rd I am now largely successful, although the action of these powers is not yet perfectly organized. It is only in the <span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">4</span>th that I feel a serious resistance. I can produce single results with perfect accuracy, I can produce general results with difficulty &amp; after a more or less prolonged struggle, but I can neither be sure of producing the final decisive result I am aiming at nor of securing that orderly arrangement of events which prevents the results from being isolated &amp; only partially effective. In some directions I seem to succeed, in others partly to fail &amp; partly to succeed, while in some fields, eg, this matter of financial equipment both for my personal life &amp; for my work I have hitherto entirely failed. When I shall succeed even partially in that, then I shall know that my hour of success is at hand &amp; that I have got rid of the past karma in myself &amp; others, which stands in our way &amp; helps the forces of Kaliyuga to baffle our efforts.” (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">181</span>-<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">82</span>)</p>
			<hr class="HorizontalRule-1" />
			<div class="_idFootnotes">
				<div id="footnote-035" class="_idFootnote" epub:type="footnote">
					<p class="footnote"><a class="_idFootnoteAnchor _idGenColorInherit" href="CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-414.xhtml#footnote-035-backlink">[3]</a> MS depends</p>
				</div>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
