<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-332</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_2_-withoutred-_-_FinalforPress-332" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-332" class="SubHead1">The Divine Mother’s Word to Aswapati</h2>
			<p class="savitri-text">“Adept of the self-born unfailing line,<br />Leave not the light to die the ages bore,<br />Help still humanity’s blind and suffering life:<br />Obey thy spirit’s wide omnipotent urge.<br />A witness to God’s parley with the Night,<br />It leaned compassionate from immortal calm<br />And housed desire, the troubled seed of things.<br />Assent to thy high self, create, endure.<br />Cease not from knowledge, let thy toil be vast.<br />No more can earthly limits pen thy force;<br />Equal thy work with long unending Time’s.<br />Traveller upon the bare eternal heights,<br />Tread still the difficult and dateless path<br />Joining the cycles with its austere curve<br />Measured for man by the initiate Gods.<br />My light shall be in thee, my strength thy force.<br />Let not the impatient Titan drive thy heart,<br />Ask not the imperfect fruit, the partial prize.<br />Only one boon, to greaten thy spirit, demand;<br />Only one joy, to raise thy kind, desire.<br />Above blind fate and the antagonist powers<br />Moveless there stands a high unchanging Will;<br />To its omnipotence leave thy work’s result.<br />All things shall change in God’s transfiguring hour.” (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">340</span>-<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">41</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
