<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-355</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_2_-withoutred-_-_FinalforPress-355" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-355" class="SubHead1">The Descent of the <a id="_idIndexMarker1023"></a><span class="Index">Mighty Mother</span> and the Resulting Glad Uplift</h2>
			<p class="savitri-text">“In its deep lotus home her being sat<br />As if on concentration’s marble seat,<br />Calling the mighty Mother of the worlds<br />To make this earthly tenement her house.<br />As in a flash from a supernal light,<br />A living image of the original Power,<br />A face, a form came down into her heart<br />And made of it its temple and pure abode.<br />But when its feet had touched the quivering bloom,<br />A mighty movement rocked the inner space<br />As if a world were shaken and found its soul:<br />...........<br />A glad uplift and a new working came.<br />The immortal’s thoughts displaced our bounded view,<br />The immortal’s thoughts earth’s drab idea and sense;<br />All things now bore a deeper heavenlier sense.<br />A glad clear harmony marked their truth’s outline,<br />Reset the balance and measures of the world.<br />Each shape showed its occult design, unveiled<br />God’s meaning in it for which it was made<br />And the vivid splendour of his artist thought.<br />A channel of the mighty Mother’s choice,<br />The immortal’s will took into its calm control<br />Our blind or erring government of life;<br />A loose republic once of wants and needs,<br />Then bowed to the uncertain sovereign mind,<br />Life now obeyed to a diviner rule<br />And every act became an act of God.<br />In the kingdom of the lotus of the heart<br />Love chanting its pure hymeneal hymn<br />Made life and body mirrors of sacred joy<br />And all the emotions gave themselves to God.<br />In the navel lotus’ broad imperial range<br />Its proud ambitions and its master lusts<br />Were tamed into instruments of a great calm sway<br />To do a work of God on earthly soil.<br />In the narrow nether centre’s petty parts<br />Its childish game of daily dwarf desires<br />Was changed into a sweet and boisterous play,<br />A romp of little gods with life in Time.<br />In the deep place where once the Serpent slept,<br />There came a grip on Matter’s giant powers<br />For large utilities in life’s little space;<br />A firm ground was made for Heaven’s descending might.<br />Behind all reigned her sovereign deathless soul” (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">528</span>-<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">30</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
