<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-288</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_2_-withoutred-_-_FinalforPress-288" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-288" class="SubHead1">The Mother’s Emanations and Her Knowledge of People</h2>
			<p class="questions">“What you say about emanations is very interesting. The Mother then has about <span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-4">150</span> emanations; adding <span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-4">150</span> of yours, we find that we are each protected by one god and one goddess.</p>
			<p class="body-text">I am not aware of any emanations of mine. As for the Mother’s, they are not there for protection, but to support the personal relation or contact with the sadhaka and to act so far as he will allow them to act.” <span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">16</span> July <span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">1935</span> (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">180</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">*</p>
			<p class="questions">“Kindly tell us a little more about emanations. How do they support the personal relation or contact the Mother has with us? I thought that all personal relations were with the Mother direct, not through a deputy!</p>
			<p class="body-text">It is terribly difficult to write of these things, for you are all as ignorant as blazes about these things and misunderstand at every step. The Emanation is not a deputy, but the Mother herself. She is not bound to her body, but can put herself out (emanate) in any way she likes. What emanates, suits itself to the nature of the personal relation she has with the sadhak which is different with each, but that does not prevent it from being herself. Its presence with the sadhak is not dependent on his consciousness of it. If everything were dependent on the surface consciousness of the sadhak, there would be no possibility of the divine action anywhere; the human worm would remain the human worm and the human ass the human ass for ever and ever. For if the Divine could not be there behind the veil, how could either ever become conscious of anything but their wormhood and asshood even throughout the ages?</p>
			<p class="questions">When X says that he feels the Mother’s physical touch or approach, with whom does he have the contact – the Mother or the emanation?</p>
			<p class="body-text">With the Mother, the emanation helping – which is its business.” <span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">19</span> July <span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">1935</span> (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">180</span>-<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">81</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“What you write about X is true. She does not realise that Mother knows all these things by other means and any information given to her only adds certain physical precisions to what she knows already.</p>
			<p class="body-text">How can she be open when she has such ideas against the Mother? They must necessarily shut her up to the Mother’s influence.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Mother has written to her that Y had said nothing and that she knew things about X, independently of any information, from X’s inner being itself which comes to her constantly and tells her or shows her what is in the nature.</p>
			<p class="body-text">The Mother besides sees things in vision and receives the thoughts of the sadhaks at Pranam and other times. Only the Mother never acts on these supraphysical intimations, unless there is a physical confirmation like the letter itself in this case. For nobody would understand her action – the sadhaks living in the physical mind would state her action unfounded and those affected would deny loudly – as many have done in the past – their secret thoughts, feelings and actions. I tell you all this in confidence so that you may understand what is the real cause of Mother’s letters to X.” <span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">10</span> September <span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">1936</span> (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">181</span>-<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">82</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
