<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-344</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_2_-withoutred-_-_FinalforPress-344" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-344" class="SubHead1">How Came This Great Perplexed and Discontented World</h2>
			<p class="savitri-text">“O mortal who complainst of death and fate,<br />Accuse none of the harms thyself hast called;<br />This <a id="_idIndexMarker1015"></a><span class="Index">troubled world</span> thou hast chosen for thy home,<br />Thou art thyself the author of thy pain.<br />Once in the immortal boundlessness of Self,<br />In a vast of Truth and Consciousness and Light<br />The soul looked out from its felicity.<br />It felt the Spirit’s interminable bliss,<br />It knew itself deathless, timeless, spaceless, one,<br />It saw the Eternal, lived in the Infinite.<br />Then, curious of a shadow thrown by Truth,<br />It strained towards some otherness of self,<br />It was drawn to an unknown Face peering through night.<br />It sensed a negative infinity,<br />A void supernal whose immense excess<br />Imitating God and everlasting Time<br />Offered a ground for Nature’s adverse birth<br />And Matter’s rigid hard unconsciousness<br />Harbouring the brilliance of a transient soul<br />That lights up birth and death and ignorant life.<br />A Mind arose that stared at Nothingness<br />Till figures formed of what could never be;<br />It housed the contrary of all that is.<br />A Nought appeared as Being’s huge sealed cause,<br />Its dumb support in a blank infinite,<br />In whose abysm spirit must disappear:<br />A darkened Nature lived and held the seed<br />Of Spirit hidden and feigning not to be.<br />Eternal Consciousness became a freak<br />Of an unsouled almighty Inconscient<br />And, breathed no more as spirit’s native air,<br />Bliss was an incident of a mortal hour,<br />A stranger in the insentient universe.<br />As one drawn by the grandeur of the Void<br />The soul attracted leaned to the Abyss:<br />It longed for the adventure of Ignorance<br />And the marvel and surprise of the Unknown<br />And the endless possibility that lurked<br />In the womb of Chaos and in Nothing’s gulf<br />Or looked from the unfathomed eyes of Chance.<br />It tired of its unchanging happiness,<br />It turned away from immortality:<br />It was drawn to hazard’s call and danger’s charm,<br />It yearned to the pathos of grief, the drama of pain,<br />Perdition’s peril, the wounded bare escape,<br />The music of ruin and its glamour and crash,<br />The savour of pity and the gamble of love<br />And passion and the ambiguous face of Fate.<br />A world of hard endeavour and difficult toil,<br />And battle on extinction’s perilous verge,<br />A clash of forces, a vast incertitude,<br />The joy of creation out of Nothingness,<br />Strange meetings on the roads of Ignorance<br />And the companionship of half-known souls<br />Or the solitary greatness and lonely force<br />Of a separate being conquering its world,<br />Called it from its too safe eternity.<br />A huge descent began, a giant fall:<br />For what the spirit sees, creates a truth<br />And what the soul imagines is made a world.<br />A Thought that leaped from the Timeless can become,<br />Indicator of cosmic consequence<br />And the itinerary of the gods,<br />A cyclic movement in eternal Time.<br />Thus came, born from a blind tremendous choice,<br />This great perplexed and discontented world,<br />This haunt of Ignorance, this home of Pain:<br />There are pitched desire’s tents, grief’s headquarters.<br />A vast disguise conceals the Eternal’s bliss.” (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">454</span>-<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">56</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
