<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_2_(withoutred)_-_FinalforPress-320</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_2_-withoutred-_-_FinalforPress-320" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-320" class="SubHead1">The Heavens of the <a id="_idIndexMarker1002"></a><span class="Index">Ideal Mind</span>: The Lovely Kingdoms of the Deathless Rose – the <a id="_idIndexMarker1003"></a><span class="Index">Worlds of Love</span>, Beauty and Delight</h2>
			<p class="savitri-text">“At either end of each effulgent stair<br />The heavens of the ideal Mind were seen<br />In a blue lucency of dreaming Space<br />Like strips of brilliant sky clinging to the moon.<br />On one side glimmered hue on floating hue,<br />A glory of sunrise breaking on the soul,<br />In a tremulous rapture of the heart’s insight<br />And the spontaneous bliss that beauty gives,<br />The lovely kingdoms of the deathless Rose.<br />Above the spirit cased in mortal sense<br />Are superconscious realms of heavenly peace,<br />Below, the Inconscient’s sullen dim abyss,<br />Between, behind our life, the deathless Rose.<br />Across the covert air the spirit breathes,<br />A body of the cosmic beauty and joy<br />Unseen, unguessed by the blind suffering world,<br />Climbing from Nature’s deep surrendered heart<br />It blooms for ever at the feet of God,<br />Fed by life’s sacrificial mysteries.<br />Here too its bud is born in human breasts;<br />Then by a touch, a presence or a voice<br />The world is turned into a temple ground<br />And all discloses the unknown Beloved.<br />In an outburst of heavenly joy and ease<br />Life yields to the divinity within<br />And gives the rapture-offering of its all,<br />And the soul opens to felicity.<br />A bliss is felt that never can wholly cease,<br />A sudden mystery of secret Grace<br />Flowers goldening our earth of red desire.<br />All the high gods who hid their visages<br />From the soiled passionate ritual of our hopes,<br />Reveal their names and their undying powers.<br />A fiery stillness wakes the slumbering cells,<br />A passion of the flesh becoming spirit,<br />And marvellously is fulfilled at last<br />The miracle for which our life was made.<br />A flame in a white voiceless cupola<br />Is seen and faces of immortal light,<br />The radiant limbs that know not birth and death,<br />The breasts that suckle the first-born of the Sun,<br />The wings that crowd thought’s ardent silences,<br />The eyes that look into spiritual Space.<br />Our hidden centres of celestial force<br />Open like flowers to a heavenly atmosphere;<br />Mind pauses thrilled with the supernal Ray,<br />And even this transient body then can feel<br />Ideal love and flawless happiness<br />And laughter of the heart’s sweetness and delight<br />Freed from the rude and tragic hold of Time,<br />And beauty and the rhythmic feet of the hours.<br />This in high realms touches immortal kind;<br />What here is in the bud has blossomed there.<br />There is the secrecy of the House of Flame,<br />The blaze of godlike thought and golden bliss,<br />The rapt idealism of heavenly sense;<br />There are the wonderful voices, the sun-laugh,<br />A gurgling eddy in rivers of God’s joy,<br />And the mysteried vineyards of the gold moon-wine,<br />All the fire and sweetness of which hardly here<br />A brilliant shadow visits mortal life.<br />Although are witnessed there the joys of Time,<br />Pressed on the bosom the Immortal’s touch is felt,<br />Heard are the flutings of the Infinite.<br />Here upon earth are early awakenings,<br />Moments that tremble in an air divine,<br />And grown upon the yearning of her soil<br />Time’s sun-flowers’ gaze at gold Eternity:<br />There are the imperishable beatitudes.<br />A million lotuses swaying on one stem,<br />World after coloured and ecstatic world<br />Climbs towards some far unseen epiphany.” (<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">277</span>-<span class="ref-numbers- _idGenCharOverride-1">79</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
