<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-524</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-524" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-552" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor536"></a><a id="_idIndexMarker738"></a>Control of Speech</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“You must always do what you say, but it is not always wise to speak about everything you do.</p>
			<p class="body-text">When you speak, you must always speak the truth; but sometimes it is better not to speak.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">18</span> December <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1951</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">204</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“When speaking of physical things one should have a lively, pleasant, witty style.</p>
			<p class="body-text">When speaking of vital things the style should be eloquent.</p>
			<p class="body-text">When speaking of mental things the style should be clear, precise, exact.</p>
			<p class="body-text">When speaking of psychic things one must be inspired.” <br /><span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">23</span> January <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1953</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">204</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“It is always a sign of strength to be able to say things gently and it is always weakness that bursts out into unpleasantnesses.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">18</span> April <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1956</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">205</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“Every word spoken uselessly is a dangerous gossiping.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Every malicious word, every slander is a degradation of the consciousness.</p>
			<p class="body-text">And when this slander is expressed in a vulgar language and gross terms, then that is equivalent to a suicide – the suicide of one’s soul.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">9</span> August <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1957</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">205</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“To cure a critical sense that manifests by incontinence of speech:</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1</span>) When you are in this state, absolutely refuse to speak – if need be, make it physically impossible for yourself to speak.</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">2</span>) Study yourself without pity and realise that you carry in yourself precisely all the things that you find so ridiculous in others.</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">3</span>) Discover in your nature the opposite way of being (benevolence, humility, goodwill) and insist that it develop to the detriment of the contrary element.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">11</span> October <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1958</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">206</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“True strength and protection come from the Divine Presence in the heart.</p>
			<p class="body-text">If you want to keep this Presence constantly in you, avoid carefully all vulgarity in speech, behaviour and acts. Do not mistake liberty for licence and freedom for bad manners. The thoughts must be pure and the aspiration ardent.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">26</span> February <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1965</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">206</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“To gossip about what somebody is doing or not doing is wrong.</p>
			<p class="body-text">To listen to such gossip is wrong.</p>
			<p class="body-text">To verify if such gossip is true is wrong.</p>
			<p class="body-text">To retaliate in words against a false gossip is wrong.</p>
			<p class="body-text">The whole affair is a very bad way of wasting one’s time and lowering one’s consciousness.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Unless this very nasty habit is eradicated from the atmosphere, never will the Ashram reach its goal of Divine Life.</p>
			<p class="body-text">I wish all would repent like you and take the resolution of stopping this unhealthy activity.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">12</span> October <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1967</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">207</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">08</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
