<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-117</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-117" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-125" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor123"></a><a id="_idIndexMarker199"></a>Microbes, <a id="_idIndexMarker200"></a>Illnesses and the <a id="_idIndexMarker201"></a>Role of Confidence</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“One thing that is now beginning to be recognised by everyone, even by the medical corps, is that hygienic measures, for example, are effective only to the extent that one has confidence in them. Take the case of an <a id="_idIndexMarker202"></a>epidemic. Many years ago we had a cholera epidemic here – it was bad – but the chief medical officer of the hospital was an energetic man: he decided to vaccinate everybody. When he discharged the vaccinated men, he would tell them, “Now you are vaccinated and nothing will happen to you, but if you were not vaccinated you would be sure to die!” He told them this with great authority. Generally such an epidemic lasts a long time and it is difficult to check it, but in some fifteen days, I think, this doctor succeeded in checking it; in any case, it was done miraculously fast. But he knew very well that the best effect of his vaccination was the confidence it gave to people.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Now, quite recently, they have found something else and I consider it wonderful. They have discovered that for every disease there is a microbe that cures it (call it a microbe if you like, anyway, some sort of germ). But what is so extraordinary is that this “microbe” is extremely contagious, even more contagious than the microbe of the disease. And it generally develops under two conditions: in those who have a sort of natural good humour and energy and in those who have a strong will to get well! Suddenly they catch the “microbe” and are cured. And what is wonderful is that if there is one who is cured in an epidemic, three more recover immediately. And this “microbe” is found in all who are cured.</p>
			<p class="body-text">But I am going to tell you something: what people take to be a microbe is simply the materialisation of a vibration or a will from another world. ... And what is translated in their science as “microbes” will be perceived, if one goes to the root of things, as simply a vibratory mode; and this vibratory mode is the material translation of a higher will. If you can bring this force or this will, this power, this vibration (call it what you will) into certain given circumstances, not only will it act in you, but also through contagion around you.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">14</span> March <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1951</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">209</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">10</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
