<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-617</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-617" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-647" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor630"></a>The Need and the Way to Go beyond Politics</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“It is above all politics. It is to organise the country beyond <a id="_idIndexMarker794"></a>politics. And it is the only way. In politics it is always fight and ugly fight – ugly. And it has become so bad. He was telling me always that things would become worse and worse, because it is the end of this age. We are entering into an age where things must be organised differently. It is a difficult time because of that.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Because we know what will come, we can help to make it come sooner and with less turmoil. There is no hope in going backwards; it would make things last endlessly. We must go forward, absolutely, and go beyond, beyond party. And nobody can explain that better than Sri Aurobindo, because he was so much, so much beyond party; he saw the advantages and disadvantages of all ties and he stated them exactly.</p>
			<p class="body-text">If you read carefully what he has written – so much – you will find the answer to all these questions. And at the same time you will know that you will have the full support of the Divine Power. The Power that was behind him is behind this transformation. It is time for transformation. We can’t cling to the past.</p>
			<p class="body-text">The best way to go beyond politics is to spread the message of Sri Aurobindo. Because he is no more a political element wanting to take power; there are only his ideas and ideals. And, of course, if people could understand and realise his programme, the country could be very strong, very strong.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Those who understand the teaching can take up the work of organising and spreading it.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">25</span> May <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1970</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">405</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">06</span>)</p>
		</div>
		<div class="_idGenObjectLayout-1">
			<div id="_idContainer043" class="Basic-Graphics-Frame">
			</div>
		</div>
		<div id="_idContainer044">
			<h1 id="_idParaDest-648" class="Headline"><a id="_idTextAnchor631"></a>Volume 16</h1>
			<h1 id="_idParaDest-649" class="Headline"><a id="_idTextAnchor632"></a>Some Answers from the Mother</h1>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
