<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-183</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-183" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-195" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor183"></a>The <a id="_idIndexMarker339"></a>Domain of Death</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“Generally, “domain of death” is the name given to a certain region of the most material vital into which one is projected at the moment one leaves one’s body. The part – how to put it? – of one’s life that’s usually the most conscious is projected there at the moment of death. Well, that region, that material vital world is very dark, it is full of adverse formations having desires at their centre or even adverse wills, and these are very, very elemental entities which have a very fragmentary life and are like vampires, in the sense that they feed on all that is thrown out from human beings. And so, at that moment, from the shock of death – for very few die without a shock, go out consciously, in full knowledge of the thing, there are not many such – usually it is an accident: a last accident; well, at that shock of death, those entities rush in upon this, upon this vitality that goes out, and feed upon it. So long as a person is alive, they cannot touch him. For, you have all had the experience of a nightmare in which, when the situation becomes really very dangerous, suddenly you wake up – you come back into your body, for the body is your protection. In the physical they can do nothing to you but when you are completely outside the physical (and even this link I spoke about serves as a protection to a certain extent when you go out), but if the links are broken and you are entirely without a body, well, unless you take advantage of special circumstances… as for instance when a person is much loved by others who are yet alive; if at that moment these people who love him concentrate their thought and love on the <a id="_idIndexMarker340"></a>departed one, he finds a refuge therein, and this protects him completely against those entities; but one who passes away without anyone’s having a special attachment for him, either because he is surrounded by people he has harmed and who do not love him or by people who are in a terribly unconscious state – he is like a prey delivered to these forces. And that indeed is an experience that’s difficult to bear. They cannot touch anything&#160;else except what belongs to their own domain, that is, the most material vital – the higher vital escapes them altogether, they can do nothing there. And so, this material vital goes out but the other remains; and this higher vital is attacked by other dangers, simply that. And if it also disappears, the mind remains. But behind all this is the <a id="_idIndexMarker341"></a>psychic being which nothing can touch, which is above all possible attacks, and it indeed is free to go where it wants. Usually – unless it has a special opportunity and has reached a state of complete development – it goes to rest in the psychic worlds. There it enters into a kind of beatific contemplation, in which it remains, and this is an assimilation of all its experiences, and when it has finished assimilating them and resting, well, it starts preparing to come down again for a new life. That being nothing can touch. But so very few are conscious of their psychic that one can hardly say that it is such and such a person whom one has known, for people as we know them are made of what? – of all their physical experiences, all their vital reactions, all their mental formations – that is, the body, the character, the thought – and with these we have a human being! Well, all that cannot persist after death unless it is organised and centralised around the psychic being and to the extent it is perfectly unified with the psychic. Otherwise all this mixture is dissolved and the psychic being alone remains, at times just as a flame, at times as a completely conscious being.</p>
			<p class="body-text">This of course is the general law. Now there are bridges, as it were, “protected passages” which have been built in the vital world in order to cross over all these dangers. There are atmospheres, which receive people leaving their body, give them shelter, give them protection. There are all kinds of other conditions; what I have told you just now is the normal state of those who die, of ordinary human beings, but as soon as we come to a little higher type of humanity, all these conditions change. The general law remains unless there is a special higher development within the being. There are people with so total a cohesion in&#160;their being that they no longer depend upon the body – not at all – whether it be there or not there.</p>
			<p class="body-text">But all this development does not come about just like that, simply by thinking about it from time to time, desiring it still less often and forgetting it most of the time – no, it is not like that that it can happen. These are disciplines, I may say, at least as arduous as the strictest spiritual disciplines…. Essentially it is for this that we are on the earth. Truly speaking, human beings were made for this purpose, to do that work, and it is perhaps because they refuse to do it that there is so much chaos in the world. If they did it truly, things would go much better.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">10</span> March <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1954</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">55</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">57</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
