<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-219</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-219" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-233" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor222"></a>Do the <a id="_idIndexMarker404"></a>Hostile Forces Help in the Spiritual Accomplishment?</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“There is nothing that finally does not help. If they did it deliberately, they would no longer be hostile forces, they would be collaborators. For you must take care of one thing, you must not speak of “hostile forces” when thinking of forces which are hostile to&#160;us. These forces are not hostile to human beings, to their quietude or happiness, they are hostile to the divine Work.</p>
			<p class="body-text">And usually I have heard many people speaking of “hostile forces” – for instance, “the hostile forces of illness which attack me”. This is too personal a point of view, it may not be the result of hostile forces; you call them hostile because they attack you. But in fact, when one speaks of hostile forces it means forces hostile to the divine Work or the divine Will. So, if they&#160;collaborated with this Work, they would no longer be hostile, you see. That’s quite peremptorily logical.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Therefore, one can’t say that it is any kind of work for the progress of humanity or even for the progress of the universe. But there is nothing, not even the most hostile things, which can’t be used for the divine Work. It depends on how it is taken. But it must be said that in their relation with human beings they take a very wicked pleasure in testing them. For example, if you are not extremely strong and extremely sincere, and you tell yourself, “Oh, I am sure of my faith” – this for instance among many other things – immediately something happens which is going to try to shake your faith completely. This is one… I suppose that’s their diversion, their amusement.</p>
			<p class="body-text">How many times, you know, when someone boasts… it may be very childishly… but when someone boasts about something: “Oh, I am sure of that, I shall never make that mistake”, immediately I see a hostile formation passing there, like that, and it enters by the little hole made by the boasting. It enters within, like that, and then penetrates, and so prepares everything for you to do exactly what you didn’t want to. But this is an amusement, it is certainly not to help you to progress. (Mother laughs) But if you know how to take it, it does help you to progress. You say, “Good, another time I won’t boast.”</p>
			<p class="body-text">And as these forces are very conscious on the mental and vital plane, one doesn’t even need to pronounce the words. If the thought… for example, if you have worked well to correct something, either a bad habit or a material weakness, anything, you have worked hard to correct this thing, and as you have worked well you have succeeded to a certain extent. Then, if simply mentally you state that you have succeeded, the next minute it begins again. It is… you see, you must not even think, it is not a question of saying, the question is simply of thinking: “Why, it was like that before, and now it is like this. Ah, it is fine!” Finished. The next minute it begins again.</p>
			<p class="body-text">And this is certain, because there are witnesses all around you who are notoriously malicious, and this amuses them terrifically. Sometimes I actually even hear them laughing when someone says something frankly. I hear a little laugh like that. Oh, it amuses them very much. And the next minute or the next day, crash! It is undone.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">19</span> January <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1955</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">17</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">19</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
