<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-103</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-103" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-111" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor110"></a>Means of <a id="_idIndexMarker179"></a>Awakening the Psychic Being</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“But it is wide awake! And not only is it awake, but it acts, only you are not aware of it. It appears to you asleep because you don’t perceive it!</p>
			<p class="body-text">Fundamentally, without this kind of inner will of the psychic being, I believe human beings would be quite dismal, dull, they would have an altogether animal life. Every gleam of aspiration is always the expression of a psychic influence. Without the presence of the psychic, without the psychic influence, there would never be any sense of progress or any will for progress.</p>
			<p class="question-Style">Would there be a sense of beauty?</p>
			<p class="body-text">Yes. Perhaps not the highest sense of beauty, but in the vital one finds a complete sense of beauty and harmony. The beauty which is fundamental, profound, universal, constant belongs only to the psychic, but the sense of the beauty of form, of appearance, of colour, the educated, refined vital fully possesses.</p>
			<p class="question-Style">And not <a id="_idIndexMarker180"></a>love? </p>
			<p class="body-text">That depends on what you mean by “love”! There would not be divine love there, naturally, but all passions, attractions, desires exist in the vital. Only, the quality of these movements has been completely changed due to the descent and diffusion of the divine Consciousness in Matter. It has awakened the possibility of true love; otherwise, all those things which are taken for love, all passions and attractions and desires – the need of devouring – all that exists very well in the vital. The first form of love in Matter is the need of devouring: one wants to possess, assimilate; and the best way of doing it is to swallow and to digest! It can be said that the cat is full of love for its kittens when it eats them and the tiger full of love for the lamb it devours!” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1</span> March <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1951</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">165</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">66</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
