<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-289</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-289" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-307" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor292"></a>Ordinary Perception and <a id="_idIndexMarker514"></a>Spiritual Perception</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“All those who have truly and sincerely had the experience of the divine Presence, all those who have truly been in contact with the Divine, have always said the same thing: that sometimes, even often, it is in what is most decried by men, most despised by men, most condemned by human “wisdom”, that one can see the divine light shining.</p>
			<p class="body-text">They are not mere words, they are living experiences.</p>
			<p class="body-text">All these ideas of good and evil, good and bad, higher, lower, all these notions belong to the ignorance of the human mind, and if one really wants to come into contact with the divine life, one must liberate oneself totally from this ignorance, one must rise to a region of consciousness where these things have no reality. The feeling of superiority and inferiority completely disappears, it is replaced by something else which is of a very different nature – a sort of capacity for filtering appearances, penetrating behind masks, shifting the point of view.</p>
			<p class="body-text">And these are not words, it is altogether true that everything changes its appearance, totally, that life and things are completely different from what they appear to be.</p>
			<p class="body-text">All this contact, this ordinary perception of the world loses its reality completely. This is what appears unreal, fantastic, illusory, non-existent. There is something – something very material, very concrete, very physical – which becomes the reality of the being, and which has nothing in common with the ordinary way of seeing. When one has this perception – the perception of the work of the divine force, of the movement being worked out behind the appearance, in the appearance, through the appearance – one begins to be ready to live something truer than the ordinary human falsehood. But not before.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">26</span> June <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1957</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">135</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">36</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
