<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-323</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-323" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-343" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor328"></a>The Reality of <a id="_idIndexMarker580"></a>Brindavan and Sri <a id="_idIndexMarker581"></a>Krishna</h2>
			<p class="MotherAphorism">“37 – Some say Krishna never lived, he is a myth. They mean on earth; for if Brindavan existed nowhere, the Bhagavat could not have been written.</p>
			<p class="question-Style">Does Brindavan exist anywhere else than on earth?</p>
			<p class="body-text">The whole earth and everything it contains is a kind of concentration, a condensation of something which exists in other worlds invisible to the material eye. Each thing manifested here has its principle, idea or essence somewhere in the subtler regions. This is an indispensable condition for the manifestation. And the importance of the manifestation will always depend on the origin of the thing manifested.</p>
			<p class="body-text">In the world of the gods there is an ideal and harmonious Brindavan of which the earthly Brindavan is but a deformation and a caricature.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Those who are developed inwardly, either in their senses or in their minds, perceive these realities which are invisible (to the ordinary man) and receive their inspiration from them.</p>
			<p class="body-text">So the writer or writers of the <a id="_idIndexMarker582"></a>Bhagavat were certainly in contact with a whole inner world that is well and truly real and existent, where they saw and experienced everything they have described or revealed. </p>
			<p class="body-text">Whether Krishna existed or not in a human form, living on earth, is only of very secondary importance (except perhaps from an exclusively historical point of view), for Krishna is a real, living and active being; and his influence has been one of the great factors in the progress and transformation of the earth.” <br /><span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">8</span> June <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1960</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">60</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">61</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
