<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-337</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-337" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-357" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor342"></a>Error</h2>
			<p class="MotherAphorism">“79 – God is infinite Possibility. Therefore Truth is never at rest; therefore, also, <a id="_idIndexMarker603"></a>Error is justified of her children.</p>
			<p class="body-text">...I think that Sri Aurobindo meant that error is an illusion like all the rest – that there is no error, that all possibilities are there, that they are often – and necessarily – contradictory if they are all there. They appear contradictory. But one only has to look at oneself and say, “What do I call error?” If you look it in the face you see immediately that it is a stupidity – there is no error, it slips through your fingers.</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">(Silence)</p>
			<p class="body-text">I have a feeling that Sri Aurobindo was in his ascension; the intuitive mind was piercing a hole and coming into contact with the Supermind, and so it would come like that, pop! like an explosion in the thought, and he would write these things. And if you follow the movement you see the Origin.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Obviously what he meant is that Error is one of the innumerable, “infinite” possibilities. Infinite means that absolutely nothing is beyond possibility. So where does error fit into it? We call it error, but it is completely arbitrary. We say, “This is an error” – in relation to what? In relation to our judgment that “this is true”, but certainly not in relation to the judgment of the Lord, since it is a part of Himself!</p>
			<p class="body-text">Very few people can bear this widening of the understanding.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">12</span> October <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1962</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">149</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">50</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
