<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-340</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-340" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-360" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor345"></a>Miracles</h2>
			<p class="MotherAphorism">“86 – Great saints have performed <a id="_idIndexMarker605"></a>miracles; greater saints have railed at them; the greatest have both railed at them and performed them….</p>
			<p class="body-text"> People give the name of “miracle” only to interventions in the material or the vital world. And these interventions are always mixed with ignorant and arbitrary movements.</p>
			<p class="body-text">But the number of miracles that Sri Aurobindo performed in the mind is incalculable; but naturally you could only see it if you had a very straight, very sincere, very pure vision – a few people did see it. But he refused – this I know – he refused to perform any vital or material miracles, because of this mixture.</p>
			<p class="body-text">My experience is that in the present state of the world, a direct miracle, material or vital, must necessarily take into account a great many elements of falsehood that are unacceptable – they are necessarily miracles of falsehood. And they are unacceptable. I have seen what people call miracles; I saw many of them at one period, but this gave a right of existence to many things which to me are not acceptable.</p>
			<p class="body-text">What men call “miracles” nowadays are almost always performed by vital beings or by men who are in contact with vital beings, and this is a mixture – it accepts the reality of certain things, the truth of certain things that are not true. And this is the basis on which it works. So that is unacceptable.</p>
			<p class="question-Style">I did not quite understand what you meant by saying that Sri Aurobindo performed miracles in the mind.</p>
			<p class="body-text">I mean that he used to introduce the supramental force into the mental consciousness. Into the mental consciousness, the mental consciousness that governs all material movements, he would introduce a supramental formation or power or force which immediately changed the organisation. This produces immediate effects which seem illogical because they do not follow the normal course of movements according to mental logic.</p>
			<p class="body-text">He himself used to say that when he was in possession of the supramental power, when he could use it at will and focus it on a specific point with a definite purpose, it was irrevocable, inevitable: the effect was absolute. That can be called a miracle.</p>
			<p class="body-text">For example, take someone who was sick or in pain; when Sri Aurobindo was in possession of this supramental power – there was a time when he said that it was completely under his control, that is, he could do what he wanted with it, he could apply it where he liked – then he would apply this Will, for example, to some disorder, either physical or vital or, of course, mental – he would apply this force of greater harmony, of greater order, this supramental force, and focus it there, and it would act immediately. And it was an order: it created an order, a harmony greater than the natural harmony. That is, if it was a case of <a id="_idIndexMarker606"></a>healing, for example, the healing would be more perfect and more complete than any obtained by ordinary physical and mental methods.</p>
			<p class="body-text">There were a great many of them. But people are so blind, so embedded in their ordinary consciousness that they always give “explanations”, they can always give an explanation. Only those who have faith and aspiration and something very pure in themselves, that is, who truly want to know, they were able to perceive it.</p>
			<p class="body-text">When the Power was there, he even used to say that it was effortless; all he had to do was to apply this supramental power of order and harmony and instantly the desired result was achieved.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">14</span> January <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1963</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">157</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">59</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
