<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-273</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-273" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-289" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor274"></a>Appearance of Fixed Rigid Laws and the Power of the <a id="_idIndexMarker487"></a>Grace</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“…questions.. were asked some time ago about the so-called <a id="_idIndexMarker488"></a>laws of Nature, causes and effects, “inevitable” consequences in the material field, and more particularly from the point of view of health; for example, that if one doesn’t take certain precautions, if one doesn’t eat as one should, doesn’t follow certain rules, necessarily there are consequences.</p>
			<p class="body-text">It is true. But if this is seen in the light of what I have just said, that no two universal combinations are alike, how can laws be established and what is the absolute truth of these laws?… It does not exist.</p>
			<p class="body-text">For, if you are logical, of course with a little higher logic, since no two things, two combinations, two universal manifestations are ever the same, how can anything repeat itself? It can only be an appearance but is not a fact. And to fix rigid laws in this way – not that you cut yourself off from the apparent surface laws, for the mind makes many laws, and the surface very obligingly seems to ply with these laws, but it is only an appearance – but anyway this cuts you off from the creative Power of the Spirit, it cuts you off from the true Power of the Grace, for you can understand that if by your aspiration or your attitude you introduce a higher element, a new element – what we may now call a supramental element – into the existing combinations, you can suddenly change their nature, and all these so-called necessary and ineluctable laws become absurdities. That is to say that you yourself, with your conception, with your attitude and your acceptance of certain alleged principles, you yourself close the door upon the possibility of the miracle – they are not miracles when one knows how they happen, but obviously for the outer consciousness they seem miraculous. And it is you yourself, saying to yourself with a logic that seems quite reasonable, “Well, if I do this, that will necessarily happen, or if I don’t do that, necessarily this other thing will happen”, it is you yourself who close the door – it is as though you were putting an iron curtain between yourself and the free action of the Grace.</p>
			<p class="body-text">How nice it would be to imagine that the Supreme Consciousness, essentially free, presiding at the universal Manifestation, could be full of fantasy in its choice and make things follow one another not according to a logic accessible to human thought but in accordance with another kind of logic, that of the unforeseen!</p>
			<p class="body-text">Then there would no longer be any limits to the possibilities, to the unexpected, the marvellous; and one could hope for the most splendid, the most delightful things from this sovereignly free Will, playing eternally with all the elements and creating unceasingly a new world which logically would have absolutely nothing to do with the preceding one.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Don’t you think it would be charming? We have had enough of the world as it is! Why not let it become at least what we think it ought to be?</p>
			<p class="body-text">And I am telling you all this in order that each one of you may put as few barriers as you can in the way of the possibilities to come. That’s my conclusion.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">3</span> October <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1956</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">315</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">16</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
