<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-434</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-434" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-460" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor444"></a>A Declaration</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“<a id="_idIndexMarker690"></a>Sri Aurobindo withdrew from politics; and, in his Ashram, a most important rule is that one must abstain from all politics – not because Sri Aurobindo did not concern himself with the happenings of the world, but because politics, as it is practised, is a low and ugly thing, wholly dominated by falsehood, deceit, injustice, misuse of power and violence; because to succeed in politics one has to cultivate in oneself hypocrisy, duplicity and unscrupulous ambition.</p>
			<p class="body-text">The indispensable basis of our Yoga is sincerity, honesty, unselfishness, disinterested consecration to the work to be done, nobility of character and straightforwardness. They who do not practise these elementary virtues are not Sri Aurobindo’s disciples and have no place in the Ashram. That is why I refuse to answer imbecile and groundless accusations against the Ashram emanating from perverse and evil-intentioned minds. Sri Aurobindo always loved deeply his Motherland. But he wished her to be great, noble, pure and worthy of her big mission in the world. He refused to let her sink to the sordid and vulgar level of blind self-interests and ignorant prejudices. This is why, in full conformity to his will, we lift high the standard of truth, progress and transformation of mankind, without caring for those who, through ignorance, stupidity, envy or bad will, seek to soil it and drag it down into the mud. We carry it very high so that all who have a soul may see it and gather round it.” <br /><span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">25</span> April <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1954</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">122</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">23</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“Some people looking at things superficially, might ask how is it that the Ashram exists in this town for so many years and is not liked by the population?</p>
			<p class="body-text">The first and immediate answer is that all those in this population who are of a higher standard in culture, intelligence, good will and education not only have welcomed the Ashram but have expressed their sympathy, admiration and good-feeling. Sri Aurobindo Ashram has in Pondicherry many sincere and faithful followers and friends.</p>
			<p class="body-text">This said, our position is clear.</p>
			<p class="body-text">We do not fight against any creed, any religion.</p>
			<p class="body-text">We do not fight against any form of government.</p>
			<p class="body-text">We do not fight against any social class.</p>
			<p class="body-text">We do not fight against any nation or civilisation.</p>
			<p class="body-text">We are fighting division, unconsciousness, ignorance, inertia and falsehood.</p>
			<p class="body-text">We are endeavouring to establish upon earth union, knowledge, consciousness, Truth, and we fight whatever opposes the advent of this new creation of Light, Peace, Truth and Love.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">16</span> February <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1965</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">124</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">25</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
