<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-343</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-343" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-363" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor348"></a>Why the Mother Did Not Experience the State of Rapture While Working</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“I have come to this conclusion: in principle, it is the consciousness and the union with the Divine that bring rapture – this is the principle – therefore, the consciousness and the union with the Divine, whether in the world as it is or in the construction of a future world, must be the same – in principle. That is what I repeat to myself all the time: “How is it that you do not have this rapture?”</p>
			<p class="body-text">I have it – when the whole consciousness is centralised in union; at any time, in the midst of anything, with this movement of concentration of the consciousness on union, the rapture comes. But I must say that it disappears when I am working…. It is a world – a very chaotic world of work, where I act on everything around me; and necessarily, I am obliged to receive what is around me, so as to be able to act on it. I have reached a state in which all that I receive, even the things that are considered most painful, leave me absolutely calm and indifferent – “indifferent,” not an inactive indifference: without any painful reaction of any kind, absolutely neutral (gesture turned towards the Eternal), with perfect equality. But in this equality there is a precise knowledge of what is to be done, of what is to be said, of what is to be written, of what is to be decided, in short, everything that action entails. All that happens in a state of perfect neutrality, with the sense of Power at the same time: the Power flows, the Power acts, and the neutrality remains – but there is no rapture. I do not have the enthusiasm, the delight, the fullness of action.</p>
			<p class="body-text">And I must say that this rapturous state of consciousness would be dangerous in the present condition of the world. Because it produces reactions that are almost absolute – I see that this state of <a id="_idIndexMarker608"></a>rapture has a formidable power. But I insist on the word formidable, in the sense that it is intolerant or intolerable – intolerable rather – to everything that is unlike it. It is the same thing or almost – not quite the same, but almost – as the supreme divine Love; the vibration of this ecstasy or rapture is a small beginning of the vibration of divine Love, and that is absolutely – yes, there is no other word for it – intolerant, in the sense that it will not permit the presence of anything that is contrary to it.</p>
			<p class="body-text">So it would have frightful consequences for the ordinary consciousness. I see it clearly, because sometimes this Power comes – this Power comes and one has the impression that everything is going to explode. For it can tolerate nothing but union, it can tolerate nothing but the response that accepts, that receives and accepts. And it is not an arbitrary will, it is by the very fact of its existence which is All-Power, “All-Power” not in the sense in which we understand it, but really All-Power. That is to say that it exists entirely, totally, exclusively. It contains everything, but anything that is contrary to its vibration is compelled to change, since nothing can disappear. So this immediate, almost brutal, absolute change, in the world as it is, is a catastrophe.</p>
			<p class="body-text">This is the answer that I have received to my problem.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Because it was that, I was wondering, “Why? I who am…” At any instant all I have to do is this (gesture upwards) and it is… there is nothing left but the Lord, everything is That – but so absolutely that everything which is not That disappears! But at the moment the proportion is such (laughing), that too many things would have to disappear!</p>
			<p class="body-text">I have understood that.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">17</span> and <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">24</span> August <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1963</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">172</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">74</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
