<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-180</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-180" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-192" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor181"></a>One Single <a id="_idIndexMarker334"></a>True Reason for Living</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“Essentially there is but one single true reason for living: it is&#160;to know oneself. We are here – to learn what we are, why we are here, and what we have to do. And if we don’t know that, our life is altogether empty – for ourselves and for others.</p>
			<p class="body-text">And so, generally, it is better to begin early, for there is much to learn. If one wants to learn about life as it is, the world as it is, and then really know the why and the how of life, one can begin when very young, from the time one is very, very tiny – before the age of five. And then, when one is a hundred, he will still be able to learn. So it is interesting. And all the time one can have surprises, always learn something one didn’t know, meet with an experience one did not have before, find something one was ignorant of. It is surely very interesting. And the more one knows, the more aware does one become that one has everything to learn. Truly, I could say that only fools believe they know. That indeed is a sure sign, someone coming and telling you, “Oh! I know all that; oh! I know all that”; he is immediately sized up!” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">3</span> February <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1954</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">15</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">16</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
