<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-326</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-326" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-346" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor331"></a>Existence of <a id="_idIndexMarker585"></a>Heaven and <a id="_idIndexMarker586"></a>Hell</h2>
			<p class="MotherAphorism">“42 – If God assigns to me my place in Hell, I do not know why I should aspire to Heaven. He knows best what is for my welfare.</p>
			<p class="question-Style">Do Heaven and Hell exist?</p>
			<p class="body-text">Heaven and Hell are at once real and unreal. They both exist and do not exist.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Human thought is creative; it gives more or less lasting forms to mental, vital and even subtle physical substance. These forms are appearances rather than realities; but for those whose thoughts they are, and still more for those who believe in them, they have a concrete enough existence to give them an illusion of reality. Thus, for the believers of religions which assert the existence of a hell, a paradise, or various heavens, these places do exist objectively, and when they die they can go there for a longer or shorter period. But still these things are only impermanent mental formations; they carry no eternal truth in themselves.</p>
			<p class="body-text">I have seen the heavens and hells where some people have gone after death, and it is very difficult to make them understand that there is no truth in them. Once it took me more than a year to convince someone that his so-called hell was not hell and to get him out of it.</p>
			<p class="body-text">The hell which Sri Aurobindo speaks of here is more a state of consciousness than a place, it is a psychological condition that one creates for oneself.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Just as you can carry within you a heaven of blissful communion with the Divine, you can, if you do not take care to master the asuric tendencies in your nature, also carry in your consciousness a hell of misery and desolation.</p>
			<p class="body-text">There are moments in life when everything around you, people and circumstances, is so obscure, so adverse, so ugly that all hope of a higher realisation seems to vanish. The world seems irremediably doomed to a night of cruel hatred, unconscious and obstinate ignorance and intractable bad will. Then one may say with Sri Aurobindo, “God has assigned to me a place in hell”; and, with him too, in all circumstances, however terrible they may seem, one should dwell in the peaceful joy of total surrender to the Divine and say to the Lord in all sincerity, “Let Thy will be done.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">13</span> July <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1960</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">64</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">65</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
