<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-234</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-234" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-248" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor236"></a>The Demands of <a id="_idIndexMarker434"></a>Sri Aurobindo’s Yoga of Transformation</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“To do Sri Aurobindo’s yoga is to want to transform oneself integrally, it is to have a single aim in life, such that nothing else exists any longer, that alone exists. And so one feels it clearly in oneself whether one wants it or not; but if one doesn’t, one can still have a life of goodwill, a life of service, of understanding; one can labour for the Work to be accomplished more easily – all that – one can do many things. But between this and doing yoga there is a great difference.</p>
			<p class="body-text">And to do yoga you must want it consciously, you must know what it is, to begin with. You must know what it is, you must take a resolution about it; but once you have taken the resolution, you must no longer flinch. That is why you must take it in full knowledge of the thing. You must know what you are deciding upon when you say, “I want to do yoga”; and that is why I don’t think that I have ever pressed you from this point of view. I can speak to you about the thing. Oh! I tell you a lot about it, you are here for me to speak to you about it; but individually it is only to those who have come saying, “Yes, in any case I have my idea about the yoga and want to do it”; it is good.</p>
			<p class="body-text">And then for them it’s something different, and the conditions of life are different, specially inwardly. Specially within, things change.</p>
			<p class="body-text">There is always a consciousness there acting constantly to rectify the situation, which puts you all the time in the presence of obstacles which prevent you from advancing, make you bump against your own errors and your own blindnesses. And this acts only for those who have decided to do the yoga. For others the Consciousness acts like a light, a knowledge, a protection, a force of progress, so that they may reach their maximum capacities and be able to develop as far as possible in an atmosphere as favourable as possible – but leaving them completely free in their choice.</p>
			<p class="body-text">The decision must come from within. Those who come consciously for the yoga, knowing what yoga is, well, their conditions of living here are… outwardly there is no difference but inwardly there is a very great difference. There is a kind of absoluteness in the consciousness, which does not let them deviate from the path: the errors one commits become immediately visible with consequences strong enough for one not to be able to make any mistake about it, and things become very serious. But it is not often like that.</p>
			<p class="body-text">All of you, my children – I may tell you this, I have repeated it to you and still repeat it – live in an exceptional liberty. Outwardly there are a few limitations, because, as there are many of us and we don’t have the whole earth at our disposal, we are obliged to submit to a certain discipline to a certain extent, so that there may not be too great a disorder; but inwardly you live in a marvellous liberty: no social constraint, no moral constraint, no intellectual constraint, no rule, nothing, nothing but a light which is there. If you want to profit by it, you profit by it; if you don’t want to, you are free not to.</p>
			<p class="body-text">But the day you make a choice – when you have done it in all sincerity and have felt within yourself a radical decision – the thing is different. There is the light and the path to be followed, quite straight, and you must not deviate from it. It fools no one, you know; yoga is not a joke. You must know what you are doing when you choose it. But when you choose it, you must hold on to it. You have no longer the right to vacillate. You must go straight ahead. There!</p>
			<p class="body-text">All that I ask for is a will to do well, an effort for progress and the wish to be a little better in life than ordinary human beings. You have grown up, developed under conditions which are exceptionally luminous, conscious, harmonious, and full of goodwill; and in response to these conditions you should be in the world an expression of this light, this harmony, this goodwill. This would already be very good, very good.</p>
			<p class="body-text">To do the yoga, this yoga of transformation which, of all things, is the most arduous – it is only if one feels that one has come here for that (I mean here upon earth) and that one has to do nothing else but that, and that it is the only reason of one’s existence – even if one has to toil hard, suffer, struggle, it is of no importance – “This is what I want, and nothing else” – then it is different. Otherwise I shall say, “Be happy and be good, and that’s all that is asked of you. Be good, in the sense of being understanding, knowing that the conditions in which you have lived are exceptional, and try to live a higher, more noble, more true life than the ordinary one, so as to allow a little of this consciousness, this light and its goodness to express itself in the world. It would be very good.” There we are.</p>
			<p class="body-text">But once you have set foot on the path of yoga, you must have a resolution of steel and walk straight on to the goal, whatever the cost.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">8</span> June <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1955</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">198</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">200</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
