<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-320</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-320" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-340" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor325"></a>The Relation between the <a id="_idIndexMarker575"></a>Divine Will and the <a id="_idIndexMarker576"></a>Personal Will</h2>
			<p class="question-Style">“If everything is God’s will, what is the use of personal will?</p>
			<p class="body-text">In the universe and more particularly upon earth everything is part of the divine plan executed by Nature and everything is necessary for its fulfilment. Personal will is one of Nature’s means of action and indispensable for her working. So personal will is in a way part of God’s will.</p>
			<p class="body-text">However, to understand properly, we must first agree on the meaning that is given to the word “will”.</p>
			<p class="body-text"><a id="_idIndexMarker577"></a>Will, as it is usually conceived, is the elaboration of a thought, to which is added a force, a power of fulfilment accompanied by an impulse to carry it out. That is the description of human will. Divine will is quite another thing. It is a vision united with a power of realisation. Divine will is omniscient and omnipotent, it is irresistible and immediate in its execution.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Human will is uncertain, often wavering, always in conflict with opposing wills. It is effective only when for some reason or other it is in accord with the will of Nature – itself a transcription of the divine will – or with the divine will itself, as a result of Grace or Yoga.</p>
			<p class="body-text">So one can say that personal will is one of the means that God uses to bring us back to Him.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">20</span> April <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1960</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">54</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
