<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-195</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-195" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-207" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor196"></a>State of the One <a id="_idIndexMarker360"></a>Studying for the Divine Work</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“To begin with, there&#160;are no longer subjects you like and those you don’t, no longer any classes which bore you and those which don’t, no longer any difficult things and things not difficult, no longer any teachers who are pleasant or any who are not – all that disappears immediately. One enters a state in which one takes whatever happens as an opportunity to learn to prepare oneself for the divine work, and everything becomes interesting…. </p>
			<p class="body-text">For instance, when one wants to understand the deep laws of life, wants to be ready to receive whatever message is sent by the Divine, if one wants to be able to penetrate the secrets of the Manifestation, all this asks for a developed mind, so one studies with that will. But then one no longer needs to make a choice to study, for everything, no matter what, the least little circumstance in life, becomes a teacher who can teach you something, teach you how to think and act. Even – I think I said this precisely – even the reflections of an ignorant child can help you to understand something you didn’t understand before. Your attitude is so different. It is always an attitude which is awaiting a discovery, an opportunity for progress, a rectification of a wrong movement, a step ahead, and so it is like a magnet that attracts from all around you opportunities to make this progress. The least things can teach you how to progress. As you have the consciousness and will to progress, everything becomes an opportunity, and you project this consciousness and will to progress upon all things.</p>
			<p class="body-text">And not only is this useful for you, but it is useful for all those around you with whom you have a contact.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">2</span> June <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1954</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">153</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">54</span>) </p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
