<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-139</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-139" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-149" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor146"></a><a id="_idIndexMarker242"></a>Dreams Can Have Physical Consequences</h2>
			<p class="question-Style">“If in the dream someone kills you it doesn’t matter, for it is just a dream!</p>
			<p class="body-text">I beg your pardon! Usually, the next day you are ill, or may be a little later. That’s a warning. I know someone whose eye was thus hurt in a dream, and who really lost his eye a few days later. As for me, once I happened to dream getting blows on my face. Well, when I woke up the next morning, I had a red mark in the same place, on the forehead and the cheek…. Inevitably, a wound received in the vital being is translated in the physical body.</p>
			<p class="question-Style">But how does it happen? There must be some intermediary?</p>
			<p class="body-text">It was in the vital that I was beaten. It is from within that this comes. Nothing, nobody touched anything from outside. If you receive a blow in the vital, the body suffers the consequence. More than half of our illnesses are the result of blows of this kind, and this happens much more often than one believes. Only, men are not conscious of their vital, and as they are not conscious they don’t know that fifty per cent of their illnesses are the result of what happens in the vital: shocks, accidents, fighting, ill-will…. Externally this is translated by an illness. If one knows how it reacts on the physical, one goes to its source and can cure oneself in a few hours.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">29</span> April <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1953</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">26</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">27</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
