<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-344</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-344" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-364" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor349"></a>Revelation’s Validity Is Only Individual and Gets Diluted in the Process of Expression through Words</h2>
			<p class="MotherAphorism"> “98 – <a id="_idIndexMarker609"></a>Revelation is the direct sight, the direct hearing or the inspired memory of Truth, dṛṣṭi, śruti, smṛti; it is the highest experience and always accessible to renewed experience. Not because God spoke it, but because the soul saw it, is the word of the Scriptures our supreme authority.</p>
			<p class="body-text">I assume that this is an answer to the Biblical belief in the “Commandments of God” received by Moses, supposedly uttered by the Lord Himself and heard by Moses – it is an indirect way of saying (Mother laughs) that this is not possible.</p>
			<p class="body-text">“Our supreme authority” “because the soul saw it” – but it can only be a supreme authority for the soul that saw it, not for every soul. For the soul that had this experience and saw, it is the supreme authority, but not for the others.</p>
			<p class="body-text">This was one of the things which used to make me think when I was a small child: these ten “Commandments”, which are besides extraordinarily commonplace. Love thy father and thy mother…. Do not kill…. It is revoltingly commonplace. And Moses went up Mount Sinai to hear that!</p>
			<p class="body-text">Now, I do not know whether Sri Aurobindo was thinking of the Indian Scriptures…. There were also Chinese Scriptures….</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">(Silence)</p>
			<p class="body-text">More and more my experience is that revelation – it does come – revelation may be universally applicable, but it is always personal in form, always personal.</p>
			<p class="body-text">It is as if one had an angle of vision of the Truth. It is necessarily, necessarily an angle, from the very moment it is put into words.</p>
			<p class="body-text">You have a wordless, thoughtless experience of a kind of vibration which gives you a feeling of absolute truth and then, if you remain very still, without seeking to know anything, after some time it is as if the vibration were passing through a filter and it is translated as a kind of idea. Then this idea – it is still rather hazy, that is, very general – if you continue to keep very still, attentive and silent, this idea passes through another filter, and then a kind of condensation occurs, like drops, and it turns into words.</p>
			<p class="body-text">But then, when you have had the experience very sincerely – that is, when you are not fooling yourself – it is necessarily only one point, one way of saying the thing, that’s all. And it cannot be more than that.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">5</span> February <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1964</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">181</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">82</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
