<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-266</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-266" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-282" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor267"></a>The Three Parts of a Complete Act of Divine Love and <a id="_idIndexMarker480"></a>Worship</h2>
			<p class="question-Style">““It may be said that a complete act of divine love and worship has in it three parts that are the expressions of a single whole, – a practical worship of the Divine in the act, a symbol of worship in the form of the act expressing some vision and seeking or some relation with the Divine, an inner adoration and longing for oneness or feeling of oneness in the heart and soul and spirit.”</p>
			<p class="body-text">Sri Aurobindo, The Synthesis of Yoga, SABCL, Vol. <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">20</span>, pp. <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">152</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">53</span></p>
			<p class="question-Style">I have not understood the first two parts very well.</p>
			<p class="body-text">There is a purely physical form of the act, like those forms in cults in which a particular gesture, a particular movement is meant to express the consecration. That is purely material, as for example, <a id="_idIndexMarker481"></a>lighting incense, arranging offerings, or even looking after a temple, decorating an idol, indeed all such purely physical acts.</p>
			<p class="body-text">The second part is a sort of mental consecration which makes the act that is performed a symbol. One is not satisfied with merely lighting the incense, but while lighting the incense one makes this gesture symbolic – for example, of the aspiration burning in the body or of self-giving in a dissolution, in the purification of the fire. That is to say, first the act, then the symbol in this act and the symbolic understanding of what is done.</p>
			<p class="body-text">And finally, behind these two, an aspiration for union; that all this, these acts and the symbol you make of them, may be only a means of drawing closer and closer to the Divine and making yourself fit to unite with Him.</p>
			<p class="body-text">These three things must be there for the act to be complete: that is, something purely material, something mental, and something psychic, the psychic aspiration. If one of the three is there without the other two, it is incomplete. As a rule, very rarely are the three consciously combined. That produces beings of exceptional sincerity and consecration: the entire being, in all its parts, participates in the action.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">25</span> July <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1956</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">234</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">35</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
