<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-197</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-197" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-209" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor198"></a><a id="_idIndexMarker365"></a><a id="_idIndexMarker366"></a>Habits of the Physical: <a id="_idIndexMarker367"></a>Preference for Food One Is Used to Eating </h2>
			<p class="body-text">“What are the habits which the physical must throw off? It is this&#160;terrible, frightful&#160;preference for the food you were used to when you were very young, the food you ate in the country where you were born and about which you feel when you no longer get it that you have not anything at all to eat, that you are miserable.</p>
			<p class="body-text">I don’t know, I believe there won’t be a dozen people here who have come to the Ashram and eaten the food of the Ashram without saying, “Oh! I am not used to this food. It is very difficult.” And how many, how many hundreds of people who prepare their own food because they cannot eat the <a id="_idIndexMarker368"></a>food of the Ashram! (Mother slams the book down on the stool.) And then, they justify this! So it is here that these ideas begin to come, and they say, “My health! I can’t digest well!” All this is only in their head. There is not a word of truth in it. NOT ONE WORD OF TRUTH. It is a perpetual lie in which everybody lives, and in this matter, indeed, I may tell you what I think, you have not advanced any farther than the mass of human beings.</p>
			<p class="body-text">I make an exception for the very, very, very rare ones who are not like that. They could be counted on one’s fingers. And all, all justify this, all, all – “Oh, my poor children! They are not used to eating this food. How shall we manage? They will die because of this change of food!” Well, I, indeed, can give a remedy for that. You take a boat, take a train and go round the world several times, you are obliged to eat in each country the food of that country, and after you have done this several times, you will understand your stupidity…. It is a stupidity. A frightful&#160;tamas. One is tied up there like this (Mother makes a movement with her hands) to one’s gastric habits.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">9</span> June <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1954</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">158</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">59</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
