<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-359</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-359" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-381" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor366"></a>The <a id="_idIndexMarker626"></a>Mother’s Experience of “Everything Is a Choice!”</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“I experienced this morning, for two hours, a kind of blissful state in which there was such a clear consciousness that all the forms of life, in all the worlds and at all moments, are the expression of a choice – one chooses to be like that.</p>
			<p class="body-text">It is very difficult to say with words…. The kind of obligation in which one believes oneself to be living, to which one believes oneself to be submitted, had completely disappeared, and it was quite a spontaneous and natural perception that the life upon earth, and the life in other worlds, and all kinds of life upon earth and all kinds of life in other worlds are simply a question of choice: you have chosen to be like that and you choose constantly to be like this or to be like that, or whether it happens like this or it happens like that; and you choose also to believe that you are submitted to a fatality or to a necessity or to a law which compels you – everything is a question of choice. And there was a feeling of lightness, of freedom, and then a smile for everything. At the same time it gives you a tremendous power. All feeling of compulsion, of necessity – of fatality still more – had disappeared completely. All the illnesses, all the happenings, all the dramas, all that: disappeared. And this concrete and so brutal reality of the physical life: gone completely.</p>
			<p class="body-text">...Everything is a choice! Everything, everything. The Lord’s choice, but in us, not there (gesture upward): here. And we do not know it, it is quite within the heart of ourselves. And when we know it, we can choose – we can choose our choice, it is wonderful.</p>
			<p class="body-text">And this sort of fatality and bondage and hardness of existence, all have disappeared. All disappeared. It was light blue, light rose, all luminous and limpid and light.</p>
			<p class="body-text">I conceive very well that this is not an absolute thing; it was only a way of being, but a very charming way of being…. Usually those who have not a sufficient intellectual preparation, when they have an experience of this kind, they believe they have caught the sole truth. And then with that, they dogmatise. But I saw quite well that it is not that, it is one way of being, although it is a fine way of being, well, infinitely superior to what we have here. And we can have it here: I have had it. I have had it in an altogether concrete way.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">22</span> January <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1966</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">30</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">31</span>) </p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
