<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-423</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-423" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-449" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor433"></a><a id="_idIndexMarker685"></a>The Mother on Herself</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“Since the beginning of the earth, wherever and whenever there was the possibility of manifesting a ray of the Consciousness, I was there.” (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">37</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“That which is speaking to you now, is a faithful servant of the Divine. From all time, since the beginning of the earth, as a faithful servant of the Divine, it has spoken in the name of its Master. And as long as earth and men exist, it will be there in a body to preach the divine word.</p>
			<p class="body-text">So, wherever I am asked to speak, I do my best, as a servant of the Divine.</p>
			<p class="body-text">But to speak in the name of a particular doctrine or of a man, however great he may be, that I cannot do!</p>
			<p class="body-text">The Eternal Transcendent forbids me.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1912</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">37</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“I belong to no nation, no civilisation, no society, no race, but to the Divine.</p>
			<p class="body-text">I obey no master, no ruler, no law, no social convention, but the Divine.</p>
			<p class="body-text">To Him I have surrendered all, will, life, self; for Him I am ready to give all my blood, drop by drop, if such is His Will, with complete joy; and nothing in His service can be sacrifice, for all is perfect delight.” Japan, February <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1920</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">38</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“O Lord, awaken my entire being that it may be for Thee the needed instrument, the perfect servant.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">27</span> March <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1936</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">41</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“What I want to bring about in the material world, upon the earth.</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1</span>) Perfect Consciousness.</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">2</span>) Integral Knowledge, omniscience.</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">3</span>) Power invincible, irresistible, ineluctable; omnipotence.</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">4</span>) Health, perfect, constant, unshakable; perpetually renewed energy.</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">5</span>) Eternal youth, constant growth, uninterrupted progress.</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">6</span>) Perfect beauty, complex and total harmony.</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">7</span>) Inexhaustible unparalleled riches, control over all the wealth of this world.</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">8</span>) The gift of healing and giving happiness.</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">9</span>) Immunity from all accidents, invulnerability against all adverse attacks.</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">10</span>) Perfect power of expression in all fields and all activities.</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">11</span>) The gift of tongues, the power of making oneself understood perfectly by all.</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">12</span>) And all else necessary for the accomplishment of Thy work. </p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">I wish</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1</span>) personally to be eternally the perfect expression of the Supreme Divine.</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">2</span>) that the supramental victory, manifestation and transformation should take place at once.</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">3</span>) that all suffering should disappear for ever from the worlds present and future.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">23</span> October <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1937</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">41</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">42</span>) </p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“The reminiscences will be short.</p>
			<p class="body-text">I came to India to meet Sri Aurobindo. I remained in India to live with Sri Aurobindo. When he left his body, I continued to live here in order to do his work which is, by serving the Truth and enlightening mankind, to hasten the rule of the Divine’s Love upon earth.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">21</span> February <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1968</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">45</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“Do not ask questions about the details of the material existence of this body; they are in themselves of no interest and must not attract attention.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Throughout all this life, knowingly or unknowingly, I have been what the Lord wanted me to be, I have done what the Lord wanted me to do. That alone matters.” (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">45</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
