<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-210</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-210" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-222" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor211"></a><a id="_idIndexMarker393"></a>Success Is the Most Difficult Thing to Digest</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“One must be&#160;very&#160;great,&#160;very&#160;pure, have a&#160;very&#160;high and&#160;very&#160;disinterested spiritual consciousness in order to be successful without being affected by it.&#160;Nothing is more difficult than being successful. This, indeed, is the true test of life!</p>
			<p class="body-text">When you do not succeed, quite naturally you turn back on yourself and within yourself, and you seek within yourself the consolation for your outer failure. And to those who have a flame within them – if the Divine really wants to help them, if they are mature enough to be helped, if they are ready to follow the path – blows will come one after another, because this helps! It is the most powerful, the most direct, most effective help. If you succeed, be on your guard, ask yourself: “At what price, what cost have I bought success? I hope it is not a step towards…”</p>
			<p class="body-text">There are those who have gone beyond this, those who are conscious of their soul, those who have given themselves entirely, those who – as I said – are absolutely pure, disinterested, and can succeed without its affecting and touching them; here, then, it is different.&#160;But one must be very high to be able to bear&#160;success. And after all, it is perhaps the last test which the Divine gives to anyone: “Now that you are noble, you are disinterested, you have no egoism, you belong only to me, I am going to make you triumph. We are going to see if you will hold out.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">21</span> July <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1954</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">239</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">40</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
