<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-251</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-251" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-265" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor251"></a>The <a id="_idIndexMarker464"></a>Three Victories and the Goal of <a id="_idIndexMarker465"></a>Integral Yoga</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“...the first victory is to create an individuality. And then later, the second victory is to give this individuality to the Divine. And the third victory is that the Divine changes your individuality into a divine being.</p>
			<p class="body-text">There are three stages: the first is to become an individual; the second is to consecrate the individual, that he may surrender entirely to the Divine and be identified with Him; and the third is that the Divine takes possession of this individual and changes him into a being in His own image, that is, he too becomes divine.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Generally, all the yogas stopped at the second. When one had succeeded in surrendering the individual and giving him without reserve to the Divine to be identified with Him, one considered that his work was finished, that all was accomplished.</p>
			<p class="body-text">But we begin there, and we say, “No, this is only a beginning. We want this Divine with whom we are identified to enter our individuality and make it into a divine personality acting in a divine world.” And this is what we call <a id="_idIndexMarker466"></a>transformation. But the other precedes it, must precede it. If that is not done, there is no possibility of doing the third. One can’t go from the first to the third; one must pass through the second.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">14</span> December <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1955</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">402</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">03</span>) </p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
