<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-433</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-433" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-459" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor443"></a><a id="_idIndexMarker689"></a>Sri Aurobindo Ashram</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“The rules are very few so that each one can enjoy the freedom needed for his development but a few things are strictly forbidden: they are – (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1</span>) politics, (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">2</span>) smoking, (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">3</span>) alcoholic drink and (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">4</span>) sex enjoyment.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Great care is taken for the maintenance of good health and the welfare and normal growth of the body of all, small and big, young and old.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">24</span> September <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1953</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">108</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“Ours is neither a political nor a social but a spiritual goal. What we want is a transformation of the individual consciousness, not a change of regime or government. For reaching that goal we put no confidence in any human means, however powerful; our trust is in the Divine Grace alone.” July <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1956</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">108</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“For us here there is only one thing that counts. We aspire for the Divine, live for the Divine, act for the Divine.” July <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1956</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">108</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“Here we do not have religion. We replace religion by the spiritual life, which is truer, deeper and higher at the same time, that is to say, closer to the Divine. For the Divine is in everything, but we are not conscious of it. This is the immense progress that man must make.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">19</span> March <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1973</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">110</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“The Ashram is meant for those who want to consecrate their lives to the Divine.” June <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1971</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">113</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“The two indispensable conditions to live as a disciple in the Ashram</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1</span>) To be resolved to make the needs of the soul come before all others, and to satisfy the other needs, those of the body, vital and mind, only so far as they do not interfere with the fulfilment of the needs of the soul.</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">2</span>) To be convinced that I am in a position to know the needs of the soul of each and every one and that therefore I have the right and the competence to judge in this respect.” (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">113</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“Sexual relations are forbidden in the Ashram.</p>
			<p class="body-text">So, honesty demands a choice between the Ashram and sexual relations. It is a matter of conscience.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">12</span> June <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1971</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">118</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“The Ashram is not a place for being in love with anyone. If you want to lapse into such a stupidity, you may do so elsewhere, not here.” (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">118</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
