<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-100</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-100" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-108" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor107"></a>Need to Relax Mostly Results in Sinking to a Lower Level</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“So many remarkable scholars, writers, artists who produce remarkable things, once they enter their homes, become detestable husbands, unpleasant fathers, intolerable people for those who are around them. And I am speaking of an élite, those who make special studies, discoveries, who run big institutions: outside, they are uncommon people, men of great abilities; back home they become commonplace and often unbearable – they have a nice time, they take rest, relax themselves. And if they begin to amuse themselves, that’s the end of it all! I knew people of great intelligence, admirable artists who, as soon as they began to “relax”, became utterly foolish! They did the most vulgar things, behaved like ill-bred children – they were relaxing. Everything comes from this “need” of relaxation; and what does that mean for most men? It means, always, coming down to a lower level. They do not know that for a <a id="_idIndexMarker167"></a>true relaxation one must rise one degree higher, one must rise above oneself. If one goes down, it adds to one’s fatigue and brings a kind of stupor. Besides, each time one comes down, one increases the load of the subconscient – this huge subconscient load which one must clean and clean if one wants to mount, and which is like fetters on the feet. But it is difficult to teach that, for one must know it oneself before one can teach it to others.</p>
			<p class="body-text">This is never told to children, they are allowed to commit all the stupidities in the world under the pretext that they need relaxation.</p>
			<p class="body-text">It is not by sinking below oneself that one removes fatigue. One must climb the ladder and there one has true rest, because one has the inner peace, the light, the universal energy. And little by little one puts oneself in touch with the truth which is the very reason of one’s existence.</p>
			<p class="body-text">If you contact that definitively, it removes completely all fatigue.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">26</span> February <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1951</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">155</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">56</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
