<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-119</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-119" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-127" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor125"></a>The Descent of <a id="_idIndexMarker204"></a>Divine Love into Matter</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“I am sure that when the Divine Love descended into Matter, this Matter was quite unconscious, it had absolutely no form; it may even be said that forms in general are the result of the effort of Love to bring consciousness into Matter. If one of you (I have my doubts, but still) went down into the Inconscient, what is called the <a id="_idIndexMarker205"></a>pure Inconscient, you would realise what it is. A stone will seem to you a marvellously conscious object in comparison. You speak disdainfully of a stone because you have just a wee bit more consciousness than it has, but the difference between the consciousness of the stone and the total Inconscient is perhaps greater than that between the stone and you. And the coming out of the Inconscient is due exclusively to the <a id="_idIndexMarker206"></a>sacrifice of the Divine, to this descent of divine Love into the Inconscient. Consequently, when I said “perhaps in the stone”, I could have removed the “perhaps” – I can assert that even in the stone it is there. There would be nothing, neither stone nor metal nor any organisation of atoms without this presence of Divine Love.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Most people say there is “consciousness” when they begin to think – when one doesn’t think one is not conscious. But plants are perfectly conscious and yet they do not think. They have very precise sensations which are the expression of a consciousness, but they do not think. Animals begin to think and their reactions are much more complex. But both plants and animals are conscious. One can be conscious of a sensation without having the least thought.</p>
			<p class="question-Style">Did material substance exist before the descent of Divine Love?</p>
			<p class="body-text">I don’t think it could be said that there was a material substance. The Inconscient... is the Inconscient. I don’t know how to explain this to you. If there is a negation of something, it is truly the Inconscient, it is the negation of everything. It has not even the capacity of emptiness. One needs to have descended there to know what it is and explain it. Words cannot describe it. It is the negation of all things because everything begins with consciousness. Without consciousness there is nothing.” <br /><span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">24</span> March <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1951</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">240</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">41</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
