<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-424</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-424" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-450" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor434"></a>The Mother’s Work and Teaching</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“I know perfectly well what I want or rather what the divine Will is, and it is that which will triumph in time. <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">11</span> May <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1934</span></p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="question-Style">I hope and believe Your work does not depend upon human beings.</p>
			<p class="body-text">No, it does not depend at all upon human beings. What has to be done will be done despite all possible resistances.” (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">47</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“I know that I cannot do much – I cannot satisfy the human desire for wonders and miracles. There was a time when I could and did do it. But for that one must live in the vital consciousness and use vital forces, which is not very recommendable.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">23</span> January <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1952</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">49</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“It will be said of me: “She was ambitious, she wanted to transform the world.” But the world does not want to be transformed except by a very long and slow process, so slow that the change cannot be perceptible from one generation to the other.</p>
			<p class="body-text">I find that Nature delays and wastes. But she finds that I am too much in a hurry and too troublesome and exacting.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Let me write down all I have to say; let me foretell all that will be done, and then, if no one finds that I am doing it properly, then I shall retire and leave the others to do it.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">31</span> March <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1953</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">49</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">50</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“This evening the Divine Presence, concrete and material, was there present amongst you. I had a form of living gold, bigger than the universe, and I was facing a huge and massive golden door which separated the world from the Divine.</p>
			<p class="body-text">As I looked at the door, I knew and willed, in a single movement of consciousness, that “the time has come”, and lifting with both hands a mighty <a id="_idIndexMarker686"></a>golden hammer I struck one blow, one single blow on the door and the door was shattered to pieces.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Then the supramental Light and Force and Consciousness rushed down upon earth in an uninterrupted flow.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">29</span> February <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1956</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">51</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">52</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“When I speak, I live what I say and I communicate the experience together with the words – no machine can record that. That is why the text seems completely different when it is heard or read, the main thing has gone, for it is beyond all notation. Even when what I have written myself is printed in a book or an article, the intensity of the experience I had while writing it escapes, and the text seems flat, although the words are identical.</p>
			<p class="body-text">This is the real reason for the physical Presence, its incontestable importance.” (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">53</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“Do not take my words for a teaching. Always they are a force in action, uttered with a definite purpose, and they lose their true power when separated from that purpose.” (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">53</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
