<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-336</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-336" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-356" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor341"></a>Occult Faculties Pertaining to the Power to Predict Things</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“Some people .. have the power to predict things which already exist on earth, but at a distance, at a great distance, very far from the physical eyes. These are usually people who are capable of widening and extending their consciousness. They have a physical, but slightly more subtle vision, which depends on an organ that is more subtle than the purely material one – what might be called the life of this organ – and so, by projecting their consciousness with a will to see, they can see very well, they can see things: these things already exist, only they are not within the field of our ordinary vision. People who have this capacity and who tell what they see, who are sincere and who are not bluffers, see in a way that is absolutely precise and exact. </p>
			<p class="body-text">In fact, an important factor for those who predict or see, is their absolute sincerity. Unfortunately, because of people’s curiosity, their insistence, the pressure they apply – which very few can resist – what happens, when there is something they do not see exactly and precisely, is that there is an almost involuntary faculty of inner imagination, which adds the little missing element. This is what causes the flaws in their predictions. Very few have the courage to say, “Oh no, I do not know about that, it eludes me.” They do not even have the courage to say it to themselves. And then, just a touch of imagination, acting almost subconsciously, and they fill in the vision, the information – anything can happen. Very few people can resist that. I have known many, many <a id="_idIndexMarker602"></a>clairvoyants, I have known many people who had a marvellous gift; very few of them would stop when they come to the end of their knowledge. Or else they would add some little detail. This is what always gives these faculties a rather doubtful quality. One must truly be a saint – a great saint, a great sage – and completely free, not at all influenced by other people. Naturally, I am not speaking of those who seek fame, because there they fall into the crudest traps; but even goodwill, the wish to make people happy, to please them, to help them, is enough to create a distortion.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">27</span> February <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1962</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">127</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">28</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
