<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-310</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-310" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-328" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor313"></a>Resistance in the World to the Work of the Grace</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“If there were not this constant Pressure, simultaneously from within and without, from above and from the profoundest depths, nothing would ever change.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Even with that, how much time is required for things to change! What obstinate resistance in this lower nature, what blind and stupid attachment to the animal ways of the being, what a refusal to liberate oneself!</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">(Silence)</p>
			<p class="body-text">In the whole manifestation there is an infinite Grace constantly at work to bring the world out of the misery, the obscurity and the stupidity in which it lies. From all time this <a id="_idIndexMarker557"></a>Grace has been at work, unremitting in its effort, and how many thousands of years were necessary for this world to awaken to the need for something greater, more true, more beautiful.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Everyone can gauge, from the resistance he meets in his own being, the tremendous resistance which the world opposes to the work of the Grace.</p>
			<p class="body-text">And it is only when one understands that all external things, all mental constructions, all material efforts are vain, futile, if they are not entirely consecrated to this Light and Force from above, to this Truth which is trying to express itself, that one is ready to make decisive progress. So the only truly effective attitude is a perfect, total, fervent giving of our being to That which is above us and which alone has the power to change everything.</p>
			<p class="body-text">When you open to the Spirit within you it brings you a first foretaste of that higher life which alone is worth living, then comes the will to rise to that, the hope of reaching it, the certitude that this is possible, and finally the strength to make the necessary effort and the resolution to go to the very end.</p>
			<p class="body-text">First one must wake up, then one can conquer.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">29</span> October <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1958</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">419</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">20</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
