<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-367</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-367" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-389" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor374"></a>The Psychic Remained When the Vital and the Mental Had Left</h2>
			<p class="question-Style">““The vital and the mental are sent away so that the physical is truly left to its own resources.”</p>
			<p class="body-text">All by itself. All by itself <span id="footnote-019-backlink"><a class="_idFootnoteLink _idGenColorInherit" href="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-367.xhtml#footnote-019">[3]</a></span>. And it was then that I found out to what extent the vital and the mental make what we see and hear and speak. It was… I could see, in the sense that I could move, but it was all very imprecise. Imprecise. I could hear even less than before, that is to say, very little, just a little; sometimes the same as before; sometimes just a little sound, very far away, which others could not hear, I heard. And when they spoke to me, I did not hear them: “What do you say?” I do not know. And that continuously, day and night.</p>
			<p class="body-text">One night (it is to tell you that everything was topsy-turvy), but one night I had trouble. Something had happened and I had a pretty severe pain and it was impossible to sleep. I remained concentrated in that condition and the night passed, it seemed to me, in a few minutes. Then at other times, on other days, at other moments, I remained concentrated, and from time to time I asked what time it was. Once it seemed to me that I had remained so for hours and hours, and I asked for the time: five minutes only…. So everything seemed to be, I cannot say topsy-turvy, but it was a very different order, very different.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">28</span> August <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1968</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">118</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">19</span>)</p>
			<hr class="HorizontalRule-1" />
			<div class="_idFootnotes">
				<div id="footnote-019" class="_idFootnote" epub:type="footnote">
					<p class="footnote"><a class="_idFootnoteAnchor _idGenColorInherit" href="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-367.xhtml#footnote-019-backlink">[3]</a> A few days later, Mother added: “The vital and the mental have left, but the psychic being has not left at all. It is the intermediaries that have left. For example, the contact with people (the contact with people who are present and even with those who are not here), the relation with them has remained the same, absolutely the same. It is even more constant.</p>
				</div>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
