<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-369</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-369" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-391" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor376"></a>The <a id="_idIndexMarker635"></a>Mother’s Experience of the Supramental Consciousness</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“One might say like that… for the convenience of expression, I would say: the “Supreme” and the “creation”. In the Supreme, it is a unity that contains all the possibilities perfectly unified, without any differentiation; in creation, it is, so to say, the projection of all that makes up this unity by dividing the opposites, that is to say, by separating them (it is that which has been seized by someone who said that creation is separation): for example, night and day, black and white, good and evil, etc., etc. – all that, but it is our explanation. The whole of it, all together is a perfect unity, immutable and… indissoluble. Creation means separation of all that constitutes this unity – one might call it the division of consciousness. The division of consciousness starts from the unity conscious of its unity, in order to arrive at the unity conscious of its multiplicity in the unity. And then it is this path which, because of its fragments, is translated for us by space and time. For us, such as we are, it is possible for each point of this consciousness to be conscious of itself and conscious of the original Unity. And that is the work which is being done; that is to say, each infinitesimal element of this consciousness, while keeping this state of consciousness, is in the process of rediscovering the state of the total original consciousness – and the result is the original Consciousness conscious of its unity and conscious of the whole play, conscious of the innumerable elements of this Unity. This for us is translated into the sense of time: moving from the Inconscient up to this state of Consciousness. And the Inconscient is the projection of the first Unity (if one can say it; all these words are altogether senseless), of the essential unity which is only conscious of its unity – yes, that is the Inconscient. And this Inconscient becomes more and more conscious in beings who are conscious of their infinitesimal existence and at the same time, through what we call progress or evolution or transformation, become conscious of the original Unity. And that, as it was seen, explains everything.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Words are nothing.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Everything, everything from the most material to the most ethereal, everything finds its place there – clear, clear, clear, a vision.</p>
			<p class="body-text">And evil, what we call evil, has its indispensable place in the whole. It will not be felt as evil the moment one becomes conscious of That – necessarily. Evil is this infinitesimal element looking at its infinitesimal consciousness; but as consciousness is essentially one, it resumes, regains the Consciousness of the Unity – the two together. It is that, yes, it is that which has to be realised. It is this wonderful thing, of this I had the vision at that moment.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">19</span> November <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1969</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">198</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">200</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
