<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-361</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-361" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-383" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor368"></a>The Objective Vital Worlds</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“One cannot know it unless one goes into the vital fully conscious – conscious of his own vital and conscious in the <a id="_idIndexMarker628"></a>vital world as one is conscious in the physical world. One goes there consciously. It is not a dream, it hasn’t the nature of a dream; it is like an activity, an experience, and it is quite different.</p>
			<p class="question-Style">But there do exist also these vital worlds where one is persecuted, terrible worlds, worlds of torture and persecution, isn’t it so?</p>
			<p class="body-text">Ninety per cent subjective.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Ninety per cent subjective. For more than a year, regularly, every night, at the same hour and in the same way, I used to enter the vital to do some special work there. This was not due to my own will: I was destined to do it. It was something I had to do. Now, for instance, this entry into the vital has been often described: there is a passage where beings are posted to keep you from entering (much has been said about these things in books of occultism). Well, I know by an experience, not casual, but repeated and understood, that this opposition or this malevolence is ninety per cent psychological, in the sense that if you do not anticipate it or fear it, or that there isn’t something in you that fears the unknown nor has all these movements of apprehension and so forth, then it is like a shadow across a picture or the projection of an image: it has no concrete reality. </p>
			<p class="body-text">I have had, it is true, one or two real vital battles in going to the rescue of someone who had gone astray. And twice I have received blows, and the next morning when I woke up there was the mark (Mother touches her right eye). Well, in these two cases, I know it was something in me – not any fear, I have never been afraid there, but because I anticipated it. The idea that “this could very well happen” and the fact that I was expecting it, made the blow come. I knew it for certain. And if I had been in what may be called my “normal state”, of inner certitude, this could not have touched me, it could not. And I had had this apprehension because an occultist whom I knew, had lost an eye in a vital fight and she had told me about it; and so (Mother laughs), that gave me the idea that this was possible, because it had happened to her! But when I am in my own state – I cannot even say that, it is not “personal”, it is a way of being – when one is in the true state, when one is a conscious being and has the true way of being, this cannot touch one.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">18</span> May <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1966</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">36</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">37</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
