<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-377</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-377" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-399" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor383"></a>The Conversion of the Body-Mind Essential for Transformation of the Functioning of the Body</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“A letter of Sri Aurobindo was read to me in which he said that for the Supramental to be fixed here (he had seen that the Supramental came into him and then it withdrew, and then it came back again and again withdrew – it was not stable); for it to become stable it must enter and settle itself in the physical mind.<span id="footnote-021-backlink"><a class="_idFootnoteLink _idGenColorInherit" href="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-377.xhtml#footnote-021">[5]</a></span> It is this work which is being done in me for months now: the mind has been withdrawn and the physical mind has taken its place, and precisely, for some time, I have noticed that it was… (I was telling you that it was seeing everything in a different way, that its relation with things was different), I have noticed that this physical mind, the mind that is in the body, became wide, it had a global view of things, and its entire way of seeing was absolutely different. I have seen, it is this: the Supramental is at work there. I am passing through extraordinary hours.</p>
			<p class="body-text">What is happening is that it is only things that resist – one feels (I have already told you) that it is as though at every moment (and it is becoming stronger and stronger), at every moment: Do you want life, do you want death; do you want life, do you want death?… And it is like that. And then, life, it is union with the Supreme, and the consciousness, an altogether new consciousness comes. And it is this way, it is that way (Mother makes a gesture of tilting from one side to the other). But yesterday or the day before, I do not know, all of a sudden the body said: No! It is finished – I want life, I want nothing else. And since then, things are getting better.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Oh! Volumes would be needed to narrate what is happening…. It is… extraordinarily interesting and altogether new. New altogether.</p>
			<p class="body-text">(Mother goes deep within.)</p>
			<p class="body-text">Because of physical death, the subconscient is a defeatist. Well, the subconscient has the feeling that whatever be the progress, whatever the effort, it will always end by that, because till today it has always ended that way. So the work that is being done is to try to introduce faith, the certitude of transformation, into the subconscient. And that… it is a struggle of every moment.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">22</span> December <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1971</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">284</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">85</span>) </p>
			<hr class="HorizontalRule-1" />
			<div class="_idFootnotes">
				<div id="footnote-021" class="_idFootnote" epub:type="footnote">
					<p class="footnote"><a class="_idFootnoteAnchor _idGenColorInherit" href="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-377.xhtml#footnote-021-backlink">[5]</a> Mother may be referring to a passage like the following:</p>
					<p class="footnote">“.. there is too an obscure mind of the body, of the very cells, molecules, corpuscles. Haeckel, the German materialist, spoke somewhere of the <a id="_idIndexMarker640"></a>will in the atom, and recent <a id="_idIndexMarker641"></a>science, dealing with the incalculable individual variation in the activity of the electrons, comes near to perceiving that this is not a figure but the shadow thrown by a secret reality. This <a id="_idIndexMarker642"></a>body-mind is a very tangible truth; owing to its obscurity and mechanical clinging to past movements and facile oblivion and rejection of the new, we find in it one of the chief obstacles to permeation by the supermind Force and the transformation of the functioning of the body. On the other hand, once effectively converted, it will be one of the most precious instruments for the stabilisation of the supramental Light and Force in material Nature.” CWSA 28, 189</p>
				</div>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
