<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-279</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-279" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-295" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor280"></a>The <a id="_idIndexMarker499"></a>Importance of Reason</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“...unless you are in the presence of a completely illumined and transformed being, it is always better to advise people to act according to their reason. It is perhaps a limitation – it is in fact a great limitation – but it is also a control and it prevents you from being one of those half-idiots who are far too numerous in the world.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Reason is a very respectable person. Like all respectable people it has its limitations and prejudices, but that does not prevent it from being very useful. And it keeps you from making a fool of yourself. You would do many things if you did not have reason, things which would lead you straight to your ruin and could have extremely unfortunate consequences, for your best means of discernment until you have attained higher levels is reason. When one no longer listens to reason, one can be led into all sorts of absurdities. Naturally, it is neither the ideal nor the summit, it is only a kind of control and a guide for leading a good life, it keeps you from extravagances, excesses, inordinate passions and above all from those impulsive actions which may lead you to the abyss. There you are.</p>
			<p class="body-text">One must be very sure of oneself, quite free from the ego and perfectly surrendered to the divine Will to be able to do safely without reason.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">28</span> November <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1956</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">373</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">74</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
