<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-213</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-213" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-225" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor214"></a>Whatever Happens Is the Best for Those Surrendered to the Divine </h2>
			<p class="body-text">“<a id="_idIndexMarker397"></a>Faith that what happens is always for the best. We may for the moment not consider it as the best because we are ignorant and also blind, because we do not see the consequences of things and what will happen later. But we must keep the faith that if it is like that, if we rely on the Divine, if we give Him the full charge of ourselves, if we let Him decide everything for us, well, we must know that it is always what is best for us which happens. This is an absolute fact. To the extent to which you surrender, the best happens to you. This may not be in conformity with what you would like, your preference or desire, because these things are blind: it is the best from the spiritual point of view, the best for your progress, your development, your spiritual growth, your&#160;true&#160;life. It is always that. And you must keep this faith, because faith is the expression of a trust in the Divine and the full self-giving you make to the Divine. And when you make it, it is something absolutely marvellous. That’s a fact, these are not just words, you understand, it is a fact. When you look back, all kinds of things which you did not understand when they happened to you, you realise as&#160;just&#160;the thing which was necessary in order to compel you to make the needed progress.&#160;Always, without exception. It is our blindness which prevents us from seeing it.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">6</span> October <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1954</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">349</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
