<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-41</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-41" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-47" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor046"></a><a id="_idIndexMarker028"></a>Yoga</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“What do you want the Yoga for? To get power? To attain to peace and calm? To serve humanity?</p>
			<p class="body-text">None of these motives is sufficient to show that you are meant for the Path.</p>
			<p class="body-text">The question you are to answer is this: Do you want the Yoga for the sake of the Divine? Is the Divine the supreme fact of your life, so much so that it is simply impossible for you to do without it? Do you feel that your very raison d’être is the Divine and without it there is no meaning in your existence? If so, then only can it be said that you have a call for the Path. </p>
			<p class="body-text">This is the first thing necessary – aspiration for the Divine.</p>
			<p class="body-text">The next thing you have to do is to tend it, to keep it always alert and awake and living. And for that what is required is concentration – concentration upon the Divine with a view to an integral and absolute consecration to its Will and Purpose. </p>
			<p class="body-text">Concentrate in the heart. Enter into it; go within and deep and far, as far as you can. Gather all the strings of your consciousness that are spread abroad, roll them up and take a plunge and sink down.</p>
			<p class="body-text">A fire is burning there, in the deep quietude of the heart. It is the divinity in you – your true being. Hear its voice, follow its dictates.</p>
			<p class="body-text">There are other <a id="_idIndexMarker029"></a>centres of concentration, for example, one above the crown and another between the eye-brows. Each has its own efficacy and will give you a particular result. But the central being lies in the <a id="_idIndexMarker030"></a>heart and from the heart proceed all central movements – all dynamism and urge for transformation and power of realisation.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">7</span> April <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1929</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
