<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-220</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-220" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-234" class="SubHead1">The Difficulties Faced by Those with a Developed Psychic Being</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“Don’t mix up the psychic being with the outer being. The psychic being may be perfect and the outer being may be idiotic. Don’t confuse the two. They have nothing to do… unfortunately they have nothing to do with each other, most of the time. For the outer being is not at all conscious of the psychic being; but to the extent that it is conscious it reflects the perfection of this psychic.</p>
			<p class="body-text">If you want to speak of the circumstances, not of the character, why would a psychic being not have difficulties in the world? If the world were entirely psychic, I would understand. But it&#160;isn’t. It is just the very opposite, and I think the more psychic one is, usually, the more difficulties he has. Only, one is armed to face the difficulties. But the more psychic one is, the more is he in contradiction with the present state of the world. So when one is in opposition with something, the result is difficulties. And I have noticed that most often those who have many difficulties are those who are in a more or less close contact with their psychic being. If you want to speak about outer circumstances – I am not speaking of the character, that’s quite different, but of outer circumstances – the people who have to struggle most and would have most reason to suffer are those who have a very developed psychic being.</p>
			<p class="body-text">First, the development of the psychic being has a double result which is concomitant. That is, with the development of the psychic being, the <a id="_idIndexMarker405"></a>sensitivity of the being grows. And with the growth of sensitivity there is also the growth of the capacity for suffering; but there is the counterpart, that is, to the extent to which one is in relation with the psychic being, one faces the circumstances of life in an altogether different way and with a kind of inner freedom which makes one capable of withdrawing from a circumstance and not feeling the shock in the ordinary way. You can face the difficulty or outer things with calm, peace, and a sufficient inner knowledge not to be troubled. So, on one side you are more sensitive and on the other you have more strength to deal with the sensitivity.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">19</span> January <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1955</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">20</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">21</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
