<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-196</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-196" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-208" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor197"></a><a id="_idIndexMarker361"></a>Waste of <a id="_idIndexMarker362"></a>Money and Consciousness</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“It is not money alone that is wasted!</p>
			<p class="body-text">Energy, Consciousness is&#160;infinitely, a thousand times more wasted than money. Should there be no wastage… my word, I believe the Ashram couldn’t be here! There is not a second when there isn’t any wastage – sometimes it is worse than that. There is this habit – hardly conscious, I hope – of absorbing as much Energy, as much Consciousness as one can and using it for one’s personal satisfactions. That indeed is something which is happening every minute. If all the Energy, all the Consciousness which is constantly poured out upon you all, were used for the true purpose, that is, for the divine work and the preparation for the divine work, we should be already very far on the road, much&#160;farther than we are. But everybody, more or less consciously, and in any case instinctively, absorbs as much Consciousness and Energy as he can and as soon as he feels this Energy in himself, he uses it for his personal ends, his own satisfaction.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Who thinks that all this Force that is here, that is infinitely greater, infinitely more precious than all <a id="_idIndexMarker363"></a>money-forces, this Force which is here and is given consciously, constantly, with an endless perseverance and patience, only for&#160;one sole purpose, that of realising the divine work – who thinks of not wasting it? Who realises that it is a sacred duty to make progress, to prepare oneself to understand better and live better? For people live&#160;by&#160;the divine Energy, they live by the divine Consciousness, and use them for their personal, selfish ends.</p>
			<p class="body-text">You are shocked when a few thousand rupees are wasted but not shocked when there are… when streams of Consciousness and Energy are diverted from their true purpose!</p>
			<p class="body-text">If one wants to do a <a id="_idIndexMarker364"></a>divine work upon earth, one must come with tons of patience and endurance. One must know how to live in eternity and wait for the consciousness to awaken in everyone – the consciousness of what&#160;true&#160;integrity is.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">2</span> June <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1954</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">155</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">56</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
