<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-307</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-307" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-325" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor310"></a>The Uselessness of <a id="_idIndexMarker554"></a>Planchette and Other Spiritist Phenomena</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“..this has never served to prove anything to anybody. One could say, “Oh! It is to make you understand that there is an inner life, an invisible life, and it puts you in touch with things you don’t see and proves to you that they exist”. That is not true.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Unless you have a spiritual being within you, capable of awakening and living its own life, all these things teach you nothing at all. I knew some people – one of them especially, who was a man of science, intelligent, a man of real ability; he had studied higher science, become an engineer and held an important position; this man was a member of a society known as “spiritualist”, which had found a medium who really had quite exceptional abilities. And he used to attend all the séances with the idea of learning, to convince himself and have tangible proofs of the existence of an invisible world, the concrete and real existence of an invisible world. He had seen all that could be seen, under the strictest control, in the most scientific way possible – all the tests were provided for, down to the least detail. He told me about the most extraordinary things he had seen; I held in my hand a piece of something resembling the plastic cloth they make nowadays, which is not woven, a piece of plastic – but in those days there was no plastic, it had not yet been discovered, it was a long time ago – I held it in my hand, a piece, like this, torn, with a small design which was very pretty. He told me how it had happened. When the medium had been put into trance, a person had appeared dressed in a robe of this substance – it was a materialisation; this person had passed in front of him and, like the little brute he was, he had torn off a piece to have a proof, and he kept the piece. The medium screamed – and everything, everything immediately vanished…. But the piece remained in his hand and he gave it to me. I gave it back to him. He had simply shown it to me, I held it in my hand.</p>
			<p class="body-text">So that was something quite concrete, you see, for he still had the piece; he could not tell himself it was a hallucination. Well, in spite of all this, in spite of the most extraordinary stories which could make a whole book, he did not believe anything! He could not explain anything. And he wondered who was mad, whether it was himself or the others or… This had not helped his knowledge progress even half a step forward.</p>
			<p class="body-text">One cannot believe these things unless one carries them within oneself.</p>
			<p class="body-text">No external proofs you can have will ever give you any knowledge. When you yourselves are inwardly developed, are capable of having a direct and inner contact with these things, then you know what they are, but no material proof – material and of this kind – can give you the knowledge if within you you do not have the being capable of having this knowledge.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Therefore, the conclusion is that this kind of experiment is absolutely useless. For those who have an inner being, one day or another, life will see to it that they awaken and will bring them into contact with what they need in order to know.</p>
			<p class="body-text">I consider these things to be an unhealthy curiosity, that’s all.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">30</span> July <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1958</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">367</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">68</span>) </p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
