<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-284</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-284" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-302" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor287"></a>The <a id="_idIndexMarker506"></a>True Attitude and the <a id="_idIndexMarker507"></a>Bourgeois Ideal</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“How many times in life does one meet people who become pacifists because they are afraid to fight, who long for rest before they have earned it, who are satisfied with a little progress and in their imagination and desires make it into a marvellous realisation so as to justify their stopping half-way.</p>
			<p class="body-text">In ordinary life, already, this happens so much. Indeed, this is the bourgeois ideal, which has deadened mankind and made man into what he is now: “Work while you are young, accumulate wealth, honour, position; be provident, have a little foresight, put something by, lay up a capital, become an official – so that later when you are forty you “can sit down”, enjoy your income and later your pension and, as they say, enjoy a well-earned rest.” – To sit down, to stop on the way, not to move forward, to go to sleep, to go downhill towards the grave before one’s time, cease to live the purpose of life – to sit down!</p>
			<p class="body-text">The minute one stops going forward, one falls back. The moment one is satisfied and no longer aspires, one begins to die. Life is movement, it is effort, it is a march forward, the scaling of a mountain, the climb towards new revelations, towards future realisations. Nothing is more dangerous than wanting to rest. It is in action, in effort, in the march forward that repose must be found, the true repose of complete trust in the divine Grace, of the absence of desires, of victory over egoism.</p>
			<p class="body-text"><a id="_idIndexMarker508"></a>True repose comes from the widening, the universalisation of the consciousness. Become as vast as the world and you will always be at rest. In the thick of action, in the very midst of the battle, the effort, you will know the repose of infinity and eternity.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">20</span> March <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1957</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">65</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">66</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
