<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-465</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-465" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-493" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor477"></a>The <a id="_idIndexMarker708"></a>True Aim of Life*</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“Only one thing is important, it is to find the Divine.</p>
			<p class="body-text">For each one and for the whole world anything becomes useful if it helps to find the Divine.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">2</span> June <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1934</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">3</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“To want only what the Divine wants in us and for us, is the one important thing.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">5</span> April <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1935</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">3</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“The individual self and the universal self are one; in every world, in every being, in each thing, in every atom is the Divine Presence, and man’s mission is to manifest it.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">30</span> October <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1951</span>(<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">3</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“The true aim of life is to find the Divine’s Presence deep inside oneself and to surrender to It so that It takes the lead of the life, all the feelings and all the actions of the body.</p>
			<p class="body-text">This gives a true and luminous aim to existence.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">28</span> March <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1970</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">5</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“Life has a purpose.</p>
			<p class="body-text">This purpose is to find and to serve the Divine.</p>
			<p class="body-text">The Divine is not far, He is in ourselves, deep inside and above the feelings and the thoughts. With the Divine is peace and certitude and even the solution of all difficulties.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Hand over your problems to the Divine and He will pull you out of all difficulties.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">3</span> July <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1970</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">5</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“Happiness is not the aim of life.</p>
			<p class="body-text">The aim of ordinary life is to carry out one’s duty, the aim of <a id="_idIndexMarker709"></a>spiritual life is to realise the Divine.” March <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1972</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">7</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“It is not in order to be happy that we are upon earth, for in the present conditions of terrestrial life happiness is an impossibility. We are upon earth to find and realise the Divine, for the Divine Consciousness alone can give true happiness.” March <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1972</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">7</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“Man was created to express the Divine. His duty is therefore to become conscious of the Divine and to surrender himself entirely to His Will. All the rest, whatever the appearance, is falsehood and ignorance.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">26</span> December <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1972</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">8</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
