<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-200</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-200" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-212" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor201"></a>Circumstances Arrange Themselves to Fulfil a <a id="_idIndexMarker372"></a>Sincere Aspiration</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“If you are in a state of conscious aspiration and very sincere, well, everything around you will be arranged in order to help in your aspiration, whether directly or indirectly, that is, either to make you progress, put you in touch with something new or to eliminate from your nature something that has to disappear. This is something quite remarkable. If you are truly in a state of intensity of aspiration, there is not a circumstance which does not come to help you to realise this aspiration. Everything comes, everything, as though there were a perfect and absolute consciousness organising around you all things, and you yourself in your outer ignorance may not recognise it and may protest at first against the circumstances as they show themselves, may complain, may try to change them; but after a while, when you have become wiser, and there is a certain distance between you and the event, well, you will realise that it was just what you needed to do to make the necessary progress. And, you know, it is a will, a <a id="_idIndexMarker373"></a>supreme goodwill which arranges all things around you, and even when you complain and protest instead of accepting, it is exactly at such moments that it acts most effectively….</p>
			<p class="body-text">If you say to the Divine with conviction, “I <a id="_idIndexMarker374"></a>want only You”, the Divine will arrange all the circumstances in such a way as to compel you to be sincere.<span id="footnote-008-backlink"><a class="_idFootnoteLink _idGenColorInherit" href="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-200.xhtml#footnote-008">[2]</a></span>&#160;Something in the being… “I want only You.”… the aspiration… and then one wants a hundred odd things all the time, isn’t that so? At times something comes, just… usually to disturb everything – it stands in the way and prevents you from realising your aspiration. Well, the Divine will come without showing&#160;Himself, without your seeing Him, without your having any inkling of it, and He will arrange all the circumstances in such a way that everything that prevents you from belonging solely to the Divine will be removed from your path, inevitably. Then when all is removed, you begin to howl and complain; but later, if you are sincere and look at yourself straight in the eye… you have said to the Lord, you have said, “I want only You.” He will remain close to you, all the rest will go away. This is indeed a higher Grace. Only, you must say this with conviction. I don’t even mean that you must say it integrally, because if one says it integrally, the work is done. What is necessary is that one part of the being, indeed the central will, says it with conviction: “I want only You.” Even once, and it suffices: all that takes more or less long, sometimes it stretches over years, but one reaches the goal.</p>
			<p class="question-Style">But one has all kinds of imperfections!</p>
			<p class="body-text">Eh? The more the imperfections, the longer it takes; the more the attachments one has, the longer it takes.</p>
			<p class="body-text">BUT THE GOAL IS SURE!” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">16</span> June <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1954</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">176</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">77</span>)</p>
			<hr class="HorizontalRule-1" />
			<div class="_idFootnotes">
				<div id="footnote-008" class="_idFootnote" epub:type="footnote">
					<p class="footnote"><a class="_idFootnoteAnchor _idGenColorInherit" href="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-200.xhtml#footnote-008-backlink">[2]</a> “If earnestly you say to the Divine, ‘I want only Thee’, the Divine will arrange the circumstances in such a way that you are compelled to be sincere.”</p>
				</div>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
