<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-347</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-347" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-367" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor352"></a>The <a id="_idIndexMarker613"></a>Mother’s Experience of an Irresistible Divine Power Governing Everything and the Positive Role of Human Aspirations, Faith and Trust in Reducing the Resistance to the Action of This Power</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“This is the experience I have had these last few days, yesterday or the day before. The feeling of an irresistible Power governing everything: the world, things, people, everything, without needing to move materially, and that this excessive material activity is only like the foam that forms when water flows very fast – the foam on the surface; but that the Force runs on underneath like an all-powerful stream.</p>
			<p class="body-text">There is nothing else to say.</p>
			<p class="body-text">One always comes back to that: to know is all right, to speak is good, to do is all very well, but to be is the only thing which has any power. </p>
			<p class="body-text">You see, people are restless, because things do not move quickly; so I had this vision of the formation, of the divine creation in the making, under the surface, all-powerful, irresistible, and in spite of everything, of all this outer turmoil…. Each time I have been conscious of the Power, the experience has been similar. The Will from above is translated into a vibration which certainly takes on some vital force but which acts in a subtle physical domain. One perceives a certain quality of vibration which is difficult to describe, but which gives the impression of something coagulated, not fragmented, something which seems to be denser than air, but which is extremely homogeneous, with a golden luminosity, with a tremendous driving power, and which expresses a certain will – which is not of the same nature as human will, which has the nature of vision rather than of thought; it is like a vision that imposes itself in order to be realised – in a domain that is very close to material Matter, but invisible, except to the inner sight. And that vibration exerts a pressure on people, things, circumstances, to mould them according to its vision. And it is irresistible. Even people who think the opposite, who want the opposite, do what is wanted without wanting to; even the things that by their very nature are opposed to it are turned around.</p>
			<p class="body-text">For national events, relations among nations, world circumstances, it acts like that, constantly, constantly, as a tremendous Power. And so if one is oneself in a state of union with the divine Will, without any intervention of thought, or any conception or idea, one can follow it, one sees and knows.</p>
			<p class="body-text">The resistances of the inertia that is in every consciousness and in Matter mean that this Action, instead of being direct and perfectly harmonious, becomes confused, full of contradictions, clashes and conflicts; instead of everything resolving itself “normally”, so to say, smoothly – as it should be – all this inertia that resists and opposes, gives it a tangled movement in which things collide and there is disorder and destruction, which become necessary only because of the resistance, but which were not indispensable, which might not have existed – which truly speaking should not have been – because this Will, this Power is a Power of perfect harmony where each thing is in its place, and it organises things wonderfully. It comes as an absolutely luminous and perfect organisation, which one can see when one has the vision; but when it comes down and presses on Matter, everything begins to seethe and resist. Therefore, to attempt to impute the disorders and confusions and destructions to the divine Action, to the divine Power, is another human foolishness. It is the inertia – not to mention the bad will – which causes the catastrophe. It is not that the catastrophe was intended, nor even foreseen, it is caused by the resistance. </p>
			<p class="body-text">And then, there is added the vision of the action of <a id="_idIndexMarker614"></a>Grace, which comes to moderate the results wherever possible, that is to say, wherever it is accepted. And this explains why aspiration, faith, complete trust on the part of the earthly human element have a harmonising power, because they allow the Grace to come and set right the consequences of this blind resistance.</p>
			<p class="body-text">This is a clear vision – clear, clear, even in the details.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">6</span> July <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1966</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">229</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">32</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
