<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-179</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-179" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-191" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor180"></a>Association between the <a id="_idIndexMarker332"></a>Physical and the Psychic</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“There is a sort of association between the physical and the <a id="_idIndexMarker333"></a>psychic and between the mental and the vital being. A mental being is very often a very vital being. A psychic being is very often a physical being. Children – just because this psychic consciousness is in front in them – live also altogether in their body. But as soon as one begins to develop the mind, the taste for association also develops, with all the deformations that go with it. People who make very strict distinction between man and woman (I&#160;don’t know why, for one is as good as the other), say that man is mental and vital and woman physical and psychic. There is some truth in it. But naturally it involves all possible exceptions and complications. These are arbitrary simplifications. In fact the physical being has a simplicity and even a goodwill (which is not always very enlightened, far from it), but still a simplicity and goodwill which put it in a closer relation with the psychic than the passion of the vital or the pretensions of the mind. And it is probably because of that also that in children the psychic can feel more at ease, being less constantly jostled by mental and vital contradictions.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">27</span> January <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1954</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">5</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">6</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
