<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-378</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-378" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-400" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor384"></a>Difficulties Depend Entirely on the Way We Receive Things and React to Them</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“...I am more and more convinced that we receive things and react in a way that creates <a id="_idIndexMarker643"></a>difficulties – I am more and more convinced of it. Because I have experiences hardly agreeable, physically, materially, and then everything changes according to whether one pays attention to it or not, according to an attitude like this (gesture turned to oneself) in which one looks at oneself living, or else an attitude in which one is (gesture of wideness) in all things, in movement, in life, and an attitude in which one gives importance only to the Divine; if one is able to be like this all the time, there is no difficulty – and things remain the same. This is the experience: the thing in itself is of a certain kind, and it is our reaction with respect to the thing which differs. The experience is more and more conclusive. There are three categories: our attitude towards things, the things in themselves (these two always bring difficulties), and there is a third category in which everything, everything exists in relation to the Divine, in the Consciousness of the Divine – everything goes on wonderfully! Easy! And I speak of material things, of the material physical life (morally speaking it has long been known to be like that), but things material, that is to say, the small inconveniences of the body, its reactions, having pain or not, circumstances going bad, not being able to swallow – things most trivial to which no attention is paid when one is young and strong and healthy; no attention is paid and for everybody it is so; but when one lives in the consciousness of his body and of what happens to it, the way it receives, what comes and all that – oh! it is misery. When one lives in the consciousness of others, of what they want, what they need, their relation with you – it is misery! But if you live in the Divine Presence and if the Divine does all, sees all, is all… it is Peace – it is Peace – time has no more duration, everything is easy and… it is not that one feels a joy nor that one feels… it is not that, it is the Divine who is there. And that is the only solution. And it is towards that that the world is moving: towards the Consciousness of the Divine – the Divine who does, the Divine who is, the Divine… And then identically the same circumstances (I do not speak of different circumstances), identically the same circumstances (this is my experience of these days, so concrete!) – the day before yesterday I was quite unwell, and yesterday the circumstances were the same, my body was in the same state, everything the same and… all was peaceful.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Of this I am absolutely convinced.</p>
			<p class="body-text">This explains everything. This explains everything, everything, everything.</p>
			<p class="body-text">The world is the same – it is seen and felt in an absolutely opposite way.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Everything is a phenomenon of consciousness – everything. Only, not this consciousness, neither this one nor that one; it is not that. It is our way, the human way of being conscious, or the divine way of being conscious. There you are. The whole matter is there. And I am absolutely convinced.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">25</span> December <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1971</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">286</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">87</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
