<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-450</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-450" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-476" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor460"></a>The Mother on Auroville – Some Selected Words</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“<a id="_idIndexMarker702"></a>Auroville is meant not for the satisfaction of desires but for the growth of the true consciousness.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">16</span> June <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1968</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">196</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“It is not for comfort and satisfaction of desires that one comes to Auroville; it is for the growth of consciousness and consecration to the Truth that has to be realised.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Unselfishness is the first need to participate in the creation of Auroville.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">5</span> November <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1968</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">197</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“Quarrels are altogether contrary to the spirit of Auroville.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">20</span> September <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1969</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">202</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“Our research will not be a search effected by mystic means. It is in life itself that we wish to find the Divine. And it is through this discovery that life can really be transformed.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">2</span> May <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1970</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">206</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“All fancies are vital movements and most undesirable.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Liberty does not mean to follow one’s desires but, on the contrary, to be free from them.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">27</span> August <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1971</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">213</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“Auroville must not lie. Everyone who aspires to be an Aurovilian must make the resolution never to tell a lie.” <br /><span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">28</span> August <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1971</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">213</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“There is only one solution for falsehood: it is to cure in ourselves all that contradicts in our consciousness the presence of the Divine.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">31</span> December <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1972</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">220</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“Cultivation without chemical fertilisers and dangerous insecticides is advisable.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1971</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">234</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“Drugs are prohibited in Auroville.</p>
			<p class="body-text">If there are any who take them, they do it deceitfully.</p>
			<p class="body-text">The ideal Aurovilian, eager to become conscious of the Divine Consciousness, takes neither tobacco, nor alcohol, nor drugs.” February <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1971</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">239</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="question-Style">“Is it true, Mother, that though you do not want drugs to be taken at Aspiration, you tolerate them on the other hand at the Centre or in other parts of Auroville?</p>
			<p class="body-text">This is a lie.</p>
			<p class="body-text">I have said, no drugs in Auroville, and I do not go back on my word.</p>
			<p class="question-Style">Is it true that essentially you are not against the experience?</p>
			<p class="body-text">This so-called experience warps the development and damages the consciousness; on the pathway to the Divine it is a fall into the rut.</p>
			<p class="body-text">This is clear, I think.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">15</span> April <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1971</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">239</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">40</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“Sexual activities bind man to the animal and they will be completely transformed in the future.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Those who want to work for the future and prepare themselves to live it, would do well not to be hypnotised by this subject which animalises the consciousness. Above all, do not associate it with love in your thought, for they really have nothing to do with each other.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">23</span> November <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1971</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">240</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">41</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“From the spiritual point of view, <a id="_idIndexMarker703"></a>India is the foremost country in the world. Her mission is to set the example of spirituality. Sri Aurobindo came on earth to teach this to the world.</p>
			<p class="body-text">This fact is so obvious that a simple and ignorant peasant here is, in his heart, closer to the Divine than the intellectuals of Europe.</p>
			<p class="body-text">All those who want to become Aurovilians must know this and behave accordingly; otherwise they are unworthy of being Aurovilians.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">8</span> February <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1972</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">244</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">45</span>)</p>
			<p class="question-Style">“Firstly, is there something specific being done which is impeding the flow of money to Auroville?</p>
			<p class="body-text">It is the lack of push towards the future that impedes the flow of money.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">17</span> May <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1968</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">247</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">Last Talk, <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">30</span>.<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">03</span>.<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1972</span>: “Since we have set aside all conventions, immediately everybody thinks: “Ah! Nice place to satisfy our desires.” And they nearly all come with that intention.</p>
			<p class="body-text">And because I built a maternity clinic for the children of people I was obliged to send away from the Ashram, so that they would have a place to have their children, people think that the maternity clinic is intended for all illegitimate children.</p>
			<p class="body-text">I am not concerned about legality, I am not concerned about laws or conventions. But what I do want is a more divine life and not an animal life.</p>
			<p class="body-text">And they turn freedom into license, they use it to satisfy their desires. And all the things that we have truly worked all our lives to master, they indulge in – a dissipation. I am absolutely disgusted.</p>
			<p class="body-text">We are here to give up all desires and turn towards the Divine and to become conscious of the Divine. The Divine we seek is not remote and inaccessible. He is at the core of His own creation and what He wants us to do is to find Him, and by our personal transformation to become capable of knowing Him, of uniting with Him and, in the end, of manifesting Him consciously. This is what we should consecrate ourselves to, this is our true reason for existence. And our first step towards this sublime realisation is the manifestation of the supramental Consciousness.</p>
			<p class="body-text">To realise and manifest the Divine in our own lives is the way, not to become animals and live like cats and dogs.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Just the opposite! The greater part of the population of Auroville is a subhumanity instead of a superhumanity. Well, it is time for all that to come to an end.</p>
			<p class="body-text">There are people who have come just like that, and now when I tell them: “This won’t do at all,” they answer: “Oh, we didn’t come here for that!”</p>
			<p class="body-text">How I would like to be able to go and tell them all to their faces that they are mistaken, that things are not like that. But I think it is time to write it down.</p>
			<p class="body-text">How pretty it is, a very pretty humanity!” (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">347</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">48</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
