<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-293</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-293" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-311" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor296"></a>The <a id="_idIndexMarker520"></a>Mental versus the <a id="_idIndexMarker521"></a>Spiritual Perception of Things</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“If you remain in a consciousness which functions mentally, even if it is the highest mind, you have the notion of an absolute <a id="_idIndexMarker522"></a>determinism of cause and effect and feel that things are what they are because they are what they are and cannot be otherwise.</p>
			<p class="body-text">It is only when you come out of the mental consciousness completely and enter a higher perception of things – which you may call spiritual or divine – that you suddenly find yourself in a state of perfect freedom where everything is possible.</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">(Silence)</p>
			<p class="body-text">Those who have contacted that state or lived in it, even if only for a moment, try to describe it as a feeling of an absolute Will in action, which immediately gives to the human mentality the feeling of being arbitrary. And because of that distortion there arises the idea – which I might call traditional – of a supreme and arbitrary God, which is something most unacceptable to every enlightened mind. I suppose that this experience badly expressed is at the origin of this notion. And in fact it is incorrect to express it as an absolute Will: it is very, very, very different. It is something else altogether. For, what man understands by “Will” is a decision that is taken and carried out. We are obliged to use the word “will”, but in its truth the Will acting in the universe is neither a choice nor a decision that is taken. What seems to me the closest expression is “vision”. Things are because they are seen. But of course “seen”, not seen as we see with these eyes. (Mother touches her eyes…) All the same, it is the nearest thing. It is a vision – a vision unfolding itself.</p>
			<p class="body-text">The universe becomes objective as it is progressively seen...Objectivisation – universal <a id="_idIndexMarker523"></a>objectivisation – is something like a projection in space and time, like a living image of what is from all eternity. And as the image is gradually projected on the screen of time and space, it becomes objective:</p>
			<p class="body-text">The Supreme contemplating His own Image.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">28</span> August <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1957</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">176</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">77</span>) </p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
