<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-121</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-121" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-129" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor127"></a>Need of Endless <a id="_idIndexMarker208"></a>Patience and <a id="_idIndexMarker209"></a>Endurance</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“You must arm yourself with an endless patience and endurance. You do a thing once, ten times, a hundred times, a thousand times if necessary, but you do it till it gets done. And not done only here and there, but everywhere and everywhere at the same time. This is the great problem one sets oneself. That is why, to those who come to tell me very light-heartedly, “I want to do yoga”, I reply, “Think it over, one may do the yoga for a number of years without noticing the least result. But if you want to do it, you must persist and persist with such a will that you should be ready to do it for ten lifetimes, a hundred lifetimes if necessary, in order to succeed.” I do not say it will be like that, but the attitude must be like that. Nothing must discourage you; for there are all the difficulties of ignorance of the different states of being, to which are added the endless malice and the unbounded cunning of the hostile forces in the world.... They are there, do you know why? They have been tolerated, do you know why? – simply to see how long one can last out and how great is the sincerity in one’s action. For everything depends upon your <a id="_idIndexMarker210"></a>sincerity. If you are truly sincere in your will, nothing will stop you, you will go right to the end, and if it is necessary for you to live a thousand years to do it, you will live a thousand years to do it.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">2</span><span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">6</span> March <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1951</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">251</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">52</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
