<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-415</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-415" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-439" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor423"></a><a id="_idIndexMarker680"></a>Influence of Parents on the Students</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“But there is one thing, one thing which is the main difficulty: it is the <a id="_idIndexMarker681"></a>parents. When the children live with their parents I consider that it is hopeless, because the parents want their child to be educated as they were themselves, and they want them to get good jobs, to earn money – all the things that are contrary to our aspiration. </p>
			<p class="body-text">The children who are with their parents... really, I don’t know what to do. The parents have such a great influence on them that in the end they ask to go away to a school somewhere else. </p>
			<p class="body-text">And that, of all the difficulties – all of them – that is the greatest: the influence of the parents. And if we try to counteract that influence the parents will begin to detest us and it will be even worse than before, because they will say unpleasant things about us. There. </p>
			<p class="body-text">That is my experience. In ninety-nine cases out of a hundred the children have taken a bad turn because of the parents.” <br /><span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">14</span> February <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1973</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">432</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“There were some children who were doing very well and were very happy. They went to their parents for the holidays and came back completely changed and spoiled. And then if we tell them that, it will be even worse because their parents will tell them, “Oh, these people are bad, they are turning you against us.” So it must be... the parents must know that before they send them.</p>
			<p class="body-text">This has been my experience for so many, so many, so many years, so many years! The danger is not the children, it is not laziness, it is not even that the children are rebellious: the danger, the great danger is the parents.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Those who send their children here should do it knowingly, they should do it because it is unlike anywhere else. And there are many who won’t come... And those who come only because it is less expensive, well, they will stop sending them.</p>
			<p class="body-text">When the teacher was about to leave, Mother added:</p>
			<p class="body-text">I would like... I would like the attitude of our school to be made known to people before they send their children, because it is a pity when the children are happy and the parents are not; and that creates situations that are ridiculous and sometimes dangerous. This is very important, very important!” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">14</span> February <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1973</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">433</span>)</p>
		</div>
		<div class="_idGenObjectLayout-1">
			<div id="_idContainer035">
			</div>
		</div>
		<div class="_idGenObjectLayout-1">
			<div id="_idContainer036" class="Basic-Graphics-Frame">
			</div>
		</div>
		<div id="_idContainer037">
			<h1 id="_idParaDest-440" class="Headline"><a id="_idTextAnchor424"></a>Volume 13</h1>
			<h1 id="_idParaDest-441" class="Headline"><a id="_idTextAnchor425"></a>Words of the Mother – I</h1>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
