<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-264</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-264" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-280" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor265"></a>The True Place and Use of the Mind</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“..the true <a id="_idIndexMarker479"></a>role of the mind is the formation and organisation of action. The mind has a formative and organising power, and it is that which puts the different elements of inspiration in order, for action, for organising action. And if it would only confine itself to that role, receiving inspirations – whether from above or from the mystic centre of the soul – and simply formulating the plan of action – in broad outline or in minute detail, for the smallest things of life or the great terrestrial organisations – it would amply fulfil its function.</p>
			<p class="body-text">It is not an instrument of knowledge.</p>
			<p class="body-text">But it can use knowledge for action, to organise action. It is an instrument of organisation and formation, very powerful and very capable when it is well developed.</p>
			<p class="body-text">One can feel this very clearly when one wants to organise one’s life, for instance – to put the different elements in their place in one’s existence. There is a certain intellectual faculty which immediately puts each thing in its place and makes a plan and organises. And it is not a knowledge that comes from the mind, it is a knowledge which comes, as I said, from the mystic depths of the soul or from a higher consciousness; and the mind concentrates it in the physical world and organises it to give a basis of action to the higher consciousness.</p>
			<p class="body-text">One has this experience very clearly when one wants to organise one’s life.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Then, there is another use. When one is in contact with one’s reason, with the rational centre of the intellect, the pure reason, it is a powerful control over all vital impulses. All that comes from the vital world can be very firmly controlled by it and used in a disciplined and organised action. But it must be at the service of something else – not work for its own satisfaction.</p>
			<p class="body-text">These are the two uses of the mind: it is a controlling force, an instrument of control, and it is a power of organisation. That is its true place.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">13</span> June <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1956</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">189</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
