<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-221</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-221" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-235" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor223"></a>Likely Consequences of an Act of <a id="_idIndexMarker406"></a>Suicide</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“Why does one commit suicide? Because one is a <a id="_idIndexMarker407"></a>coward… When one is cowardly one always suffers.</p>
			<p class="question-Style">In the next life one suffers again?</p>
			<p class="body-text">The psychic being comes with a definite purpose to go through a set of experiences and to learn and make progress. Then if you leave before its work is finished it will have to come back to do it again under much more difficult conditions. So all that you have avoided in one life you will find again in another, and more difficult. And even without leaving in this way, if you have difficulties to overcome in life, you have what we usually call a test to pass, you see; well, if you don’t pass it or turn your back upon it, if you go away instead of passing it, you will have to pass it another time and it will be much more difficult than before.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Now people, you know, are extremely ignorant and they think that it is like this: there is life, and then death; life is a bunch of troubles, and then death is an eternal peace. But it is not at all like that. And usually when one goes out of life in an altogether arbitrary way and in an ignorant and obscure passion, one goes straight into a vital world made of all these passions and all this ignorance. So the troubles one wanted to avoid one finds again without even having the protection which the body gives, for – if you have ever had a <a id="_idIndexMarker408"></a>nightmare, that is, a rash excursion in the vital world, well, your remedy is to wake yourself up, that is to say, to rush back immediately into your body. But when you have destroyed your body you no longer have a body to protect you. So you find yourself in a perpetual nightmare, which is not very pleasant. For, to avoid the nightmare you must be in a psychic consciousness, and when you are in a psychic consciousness you may be quite sure that things won’t trouble you. It is indeed the movement of an ignorant darkness and, as I said, a great cowardice in front of the sustained effort to be made.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">26</span> January <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1955</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">23</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">24</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
