<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-113</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-113" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-121" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor119"></a>Spirit of the <a id="_idIndexMarker191"></a>Form</h2>
			<p class="question-Style">“Men who undertake excavations in the <a id="_idIndexMarker192"></a>tombs of Egypt often meet with accidents. Why?</p>
			<p class="body-text">They deserve it! When they violate the tombs, you see... There are countless stories of this kind. But that is another phenomenon.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Let me explain: in the physical form is found the “spirit of the form” and this spirit of the form persists for a certain time even when outwardly the person is pronounced dead. And as long as the spirit of the form persists, the body is not destroyed. In <a id="_idIndexMarker193"></a>ancient Egypt they had this knowledge; they knew that if they prepared the body in a certain way, the spirit of the form would not leave it and the body would not disintegrate. In some cases they have succeeded wonderfully; and if one violates the repose of beings who have remained thus for thousands of years, it is understandable that they may not be very pleased, especially when their repose is violated out of an unhealthy curiosity, legitimised in the “cause of science”.</p>
			<p class="body-text">In the Musée Guimet in Paris, there are two <a id="_idIndexMarker194"></a>mummies. Of one practically nothing is left, but in the other the spirit of the form has remained very conscious, conscious to such an extent that one can make contact with the consciousness. Evidently when a bunch of idiots come to stare at you with their blank, saucer-eyes which understand nothing, and say, “Oh, it is like this, it is like that”, it cannot give much pleasure.</p>
			<p class="body-text">You see, they begin by committing an outrage: these mummies are enclosed in a box of a particular form according to the person, with all that is necessary to preserve them; now, the box is opened, more or less violently, some wrappings are stripped away here and there to provide a better view.... And considering that it was never ordinary people who were mummified, these were beings who had attained an appreciable inner power or who were of royal birth, people more or less initiated.</p>
			<p class="body-text">There is a mummy which has been the cause of a large number of catastrophes; she was a princess, daughter of a Pharaoh, and secretly at the head of a college of initiation at Thebes. </p>
			<p class="body-text">Well, men are like that...” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">10</span> March <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1951</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">196</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">97</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
