<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-33</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-33" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-37" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor036"></a><a id="_idIndexMarker018"></a>Judging Others</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“With regard to defects, let us not forget that those which annoy us most in others are usually those which thrive most in ourselves and that, in any case, if we did not have any seeds of these defects within us, we would not be able to perceive them anywhere. Besides, what exactly is a <a id="_idIndexMarker019"></a>defect? Most often it is the reverse side of a quality, an excess of virtue which has found no outlet, something which is not in its place.</p>
			<p class="body-text">As for what concerns us personally, we must be more prudent still and follow one strict rule very scrupulously: never judge anything without first having put ourselves in the place of the other, whoever he may be, with the greatest possible impersonality; try to feel what he has felt, see what he has seen, and if we succeed in being perfectly sincere, very often we shall see our estimation becoming less strict and more just.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Besides, as a general rule, in what light shall we look at what we want to judge? What shall our criterion be? Indeed, do we fancy that we possess the supreme wisdom and the perfect justice that we are able to say with certainty, “This is good, this is bad”? Let us never forget that our notions of good and evil are wholly relative and so ignorant that, in what concerns others, we often find fault with an act which is the expression of a wisdom far greater than our own. ...we can always keep in mind that the malevolent or uncharitable thoughts emanating from men are the chief causes of division among them; they make their union almost impossible even when they wish to realise it.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">9</span> February <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1912</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">95</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">96</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
