<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-445</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-445" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-471" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor455"></a>The <a id="_idIndexMarker696"></a>Ego – the Source of All Difficulties and Discords</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“In human life the cause of all difficulties, all discords, all moral sufferings, is the presence in everyone of the ego with its desires, its likes and dislikes. Even in a disinterested work which consists in helping others, until one has learned to overcome the ego and its demands, until one can force it to keep calm and quiet in one corner, the ego reacts to everything that displeases it, starts an inner storm that rises to the surface and spoils all the work.</p>
			<p class="body-text">This work of <a id="_idIndexMarker697"></a>overcoming the ego is long, slow and difficult; it demands constant alertness and sustained effort. This effort is easier for some and more difficult for others.</p>
			<p class="body-text">We are here in the <a id="_idIndexMarker698"></a>Ashram to do this work together with the help of Sri Aurobindo’s knowledge and force, in an attempt to realise a community that is more harmonious, more united, and consequently much more effective in life.</p>
			<p class="body-text">As long as I was physically present among you all, my presence was helping you to achieve this mastery over the ego and so it was not necessary for me to speak to you about it individually very often.</p>
			<p class="body-text">But now this effort must become the basis of each individual’s existence, more especially for those of you who have a responsible position and have to take care of others. The leaders must always set the example, the leaders must always practise the virtues they demand from those who are in their care; they must be understanding, patient, enduring, full of sympathy and warm and friendly goodwill, not out of egoism to win friends for themselves, but out of generosity to be able to understand and help others.</p>
			<p class="body-text">To forget oneself, one’s own likings and preferences, is indispensable in order to be a <a id="_idIndexMarker699"></a>true leader.</p>
			<p class="body-text">That is what I am asking of you now, so that you can face your responsibilities as you should. And then you will find that where you used to feel disorder and disunity, they have vanished, and harmony, peace and joy have taken their place.</p>
			<p class="body-text">You know that I love you and that I am always with you to sustain you, help you and show you the way. </p>
			<p class="body-text">Blessings.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">26</span> August <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1969</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">164</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">65</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
