<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-485</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-485" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-513" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor497"></a>The <a id="_idIndexMarker716"></a>Divine Grace*</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“Justice is the strict logical determinism of the movements of Universal Nature. Illnesses are this determinism applied to the material body. The medical mind, basing itself upon this ineluctable Justice, strives to bring about conditions that should lead logically to good health. The moral consciousness acts in the same way in the social body and tapasya in the spiritual domain.</p>
			<p class="body-text">The Divine Grace alone has the power to intervene and change the course of Universal Justice. The great work of the Avatar is to manifest the Divine Grace upon earth. To be a disciple of the Avatar is to become an instrument of the Divine Grace. The Mother is the great dispensatrix – through identity – of the Divine Grace, with a perfect knowledge – through identity – of the absolute mechanism of Universal Justice.</p>
			<p class="body-text">And through her mediation each movement of sincere and confident aspiration towards the Divine calls down in response the intervention of the Grace.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Who can stand before Thee, Lord, and say in all sincerity, “I have never made a mistake”? How many times in a day we commit faults against Thy work, and always Thy Grace comes to efface them!</p>
			<p class="body-text">Without the intervention of Thy Grace, who would not often times have come under the merciless blade of the Law of Universal Justice?</p>
			<p class="body-text">Each one here represents an impossibility to be solved, but as for Thy Divine Grace all is possible. Thy Work will be, in the detail as in the whole, the accomplishment of all these impossibilities transformed into divine realisations.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">15</span> January <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1933</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">83</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">84</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“It is only by remaining perfectly peaceful and calm with an unshakable confidence and faith in the Divine Grace that you will allow circumstances to be as good as they can be. The very best happens always to those who have put their entire trust in the Divine and in the Divine alone.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">9</span> February <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1930</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">94</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“When, in your life, you meet with a hardship, take it as a Grace from the Lord and, indeed, it will become so.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1962</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">95</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“For those who have given themselves to the Divine each difficulty that confronts them is the assurance of a new progress and thus must be taken as a gift from the Grace.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">19</span> June <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1966</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">96</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“Of one thing we must be convinced – all that happens is exactly what must happen in order to lead us and the world as quickly as possible to the goal – the union with the Divine and ultimately the manifestation of the Divine.</p>
			<p class="body-text">And this faith – sincere and constant – is at once our help and protection.” (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">97</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
