<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-155</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-155" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-165" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor160"></a><a id="_idIndexMarker287"></a><a id="_idIndexMarker288"></a>Illness through Fear</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“I knew someone who was so full of fear that he got cholera! There was cholera in the next house and he got so frightened that he caught the illness and without any other reason, there was no other reason for his catching it: it was through sheer fright. And it is a very common thing; in an epidemic, it is so in the majority of cases. It is through fear that the door is opened and you catch the illness. Those who have no fear can go about freely and generally they catch nothing. But still as I have said there, you may have no fear in the mind, you may have no fear even in the vital, but who has no fear in the body?… Very few.</p>
			<p class="body-text">A strict discipline is needed to cure the body of fear. The cells themselves tremble. It is only by discipline, by yoga that one can overcome this fear. But it is a fact that one can catch anything through fear, even invite an accident. And, you see, from a certain point of view everything is contagious. I knew a person who got a wound through the kind of fear that he felt seeing someone else’s wound. He really got it.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">22</span> July <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1953</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">166</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">67</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
