<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-164</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-164" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-174" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor169"></a>The Psychic Growth and the Common Notions of Justice</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“But the psychic will and <a id="_idIndexMarker306"></a>psychic growth escape completely all common <a id="_idIndexMarker307"></a>notions of justice, of reward and punishment as men understand them. There are religions, there are philosophies that tell you all kinds of stories, which are simply the application of notions of human justice to the invisible world, and so these are stupidities. For it is not at all like that truly; the notion of <a id="_idIndexMarker308"></a>reward and punishment as man understands it is an absurdity. That does not apply at all, not at all to the inner realities. So once you enter the true spiritual world, all that becomes really stupidities. For things are not at all like that.</p>
			<p class="body-text">A large number of people come and tell me: “What then have I done in my previous life to be now in such difficult conditions, with such misfortunes happening to me?” And most often I am obliged to tell them: “But don’t you see that it is a blessing upon you, a grace! And perhaps in your previous life you have asked for it so that you could make a greater progress….” These ideas are quite current: “Oh! I am ill. Oh! my body is in a bad condition, what have I done? What crimes have I committed in the other life so that in this one…” This is all childishness.” <br /><span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">5</span> August <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1953</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">215</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">16</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
