<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-124</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-124" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-132" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor130"></a>Ways of Curing an <a id="_idIndexMarker218"></a>Illness Spiritually</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“If there is one mental disorder which can bring about all illnesses, it is fear.</p>
			<p class="body-text">But, each man can make his own experiment. If one has a bad throat, this may be due to the fact that the day before one was in a state of depression. Or perhaps one is very unhappy, dissatisfied, one finds everything very bad, and the next day one gets a cold in the head.... Everyone must make his own observations.</p>
			<p class="body-text">... There are two ways of curing an illness spiritually. One consists in putting a force of consciousness and truth on the physical spot which is affected. In this case the effect produced depends naturally on the receptivity of the person. Supposing the person is receptive; the force of consciousness is put upon the affected part and its pressure restores order. Many of you here can tell how Sri Aurobindo cured them. It was like a hand which came and took away the pain. It is as clear as that.</p>
			<p class="body-text">In other cases, if the body lacks receptivity altogether or if its receptivity is insufficient, one sees the inner correspondence with the psychological state which has brought about the illness and acts on that. But if the cause of the illness is refractory, not much can be done. Let us say the origin is vital. The vital absolutely refuses to change, it clings terrifically to the condition in which it is; then that is hopeless. You put the force, and usually it provokes an increase in the illness, produced by the resistance of the vital which did not want to accept anything. I speak of the vital but it can be the mind or something else.</p>
			<p class="body-text">When the action is directly upon the body, that is, on the affected part, it is possible that one is relieved; then, some hours later or even after a few days, the illness returns. This means that the cause has not been changed, that the cause is in the vital and is still there; it is only the effect which has been cured. But if one can act simultaneously upon both the cause and the effect, and the cause is sufficiently receptive to consent to change, then one is completely cured, once for all.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">31</span> March <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1951</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">263</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">65</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
