<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-159</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-159" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-169" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor164"></a><a id="_idIndexMarker295"></a>India’s Freedom Foreseen by the Mother</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“I do not remember exactly when it happened; it must have been some time in the year <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1920</span> probably (perhaps earlier, perhaps in <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1914</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1915</span>, but I don’t think so, it was some time in the year <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1920</span>). One day – every day I used to meditate with Sri Aurobindo: he used to sit on one side of a table and I on the other, on the veranda – and one day in this way, in meditation, I entered (how to put it?…), I went up very high, entered very deep or came out of myself (well, whatever one may say does not express what happened, these are merely ways of speaking), I reached a place or a state of consciousness from which I told Sri Aurobindo just casually and quite simply: “India is free.” It was in <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1920</span>. Then he put to me a question: “How?” And I answered him: “Without any fight, without a battle, without a revolution. The English themselves will leave, for the condition of the world will be such that they won’t be able to do anything else except go away.”</p>
			<p class="body-text">It was done. I spoke in the future when he asked me the question, but there where I had seen, I said, India is free, it was a fact. Now, India was not free at that time: it was <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1920</span>. Yet it was there, it had been done. And it happened in <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1947</span>. That is to say, from the external physical point of view I saw it twenty-seven years in advance. But it had been done.</p>
			<p class="question-Style">Could you see Pakistan?</p>
			<p class="body-text">No, for the freedom could have come about without Pakistan. Indeed, if they had listened to Sri Aurobindo there would have been no Pakistan.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Well, externally it seems to take time, but in fact it is like that.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">29</span> July <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1953</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">188</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
