<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-152</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-152" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-162" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor157"></a>A <a id="_idIndexMarker282"></a>Bad Thought Is a Bad Act</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“But a bad thought is a bad deed. There are people who do not know it, but truly a bad thought is a bad deed and if one thinks and wishes harm to someone, well, one is responsible for the misfortunes that come upon him just as much as though one had acted. But the unfortunate thing is that this is not recognised and that never does one intervene in the bad thoughts of people…. There are even people who take great pleasure in inciting the bad thoughts of others. I have known such people (unfortunately far too many), when they have something unpleasant to say to somebody, they never miss the opportunity of telling him: “You know, somebody said that about you”, and also: “You know, that other person said this about you.” And thus they create as much harm as they think of. And this they do at times simply through stupidity, most often through vanity, in order to show off that they know something. But at bottom, in the consciousness, there is what is called <a id="_idIndexMarker283"></a>mischief-making – something that enjoys creating disorder, misunderstandings, disputes among people, unpleasant situations, and feels at ease amidst these. There are many people with a very sharp tongue. It is called in French “une langue de vipère”, a viperish tongue. This is their great amusement. And they do much, much, much harm. But even without speaking, if one has a strong thought and thinks ill of people, one does a bad deed.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">8</span> July <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1953</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">144</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">45</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
