<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-375</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-375" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-397" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor381"></a>The Only <a id="_idIndexMarker638"></a>Remedy for Falsehood</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“What I have told you is the Truth, it is the only remedy:</p>
			<p class="body-text">To exist only for the Divine.</p>
			<p class="body-text">To exist only through the Divine.</p>
			<p class="body-text">To exist only in the service of the Divine.</p>
			<p class="body-text">To exist only... by becoming the Divine.</p>
			<p class="body-text">There you are.</p>
			<p class="body-text">There is no “you”, there is no “one must wait”, there is no “it will come in its time”, there is no... all these things very reasonable do not exist any more – it is That (Mother brings down her fist), like a sword blade. It is That. It is That in spite of everything the Divine, the Divine alone. All this rubbish of bad will and revolt and... all that (Mother lifts a stiff finger), that must be swept away. And that which says that one shall perish or be destroyed by That, is the ego – it is Sir Ego that tries to be taken as the true being. </p>
			<p class="body-text">But the body has learnt that even without the ego, it is what it is, because it is that by the divine Will, not by the ego – we exist by the divine Will and not by the ego. The ego was a means – a means for many centuries – now it is worth nothing, its time has passed. Now... (Mother brings down her fist), consciousness, it is the Divine; power, it is the Divine; action, it is the Divine; individuality, it is the Divine. </p>
			<p class="body-text">And the body has understood, felt very well; it has realised, understood that this sense of being a separate individuality is altogether useless, altogether; it is not at all indispensable for its existence, it is wholly useless. It exists through another power and another will which is not personal: it is the divine Will. And it will be what it should be only the day it feels that there is no difference between itself and the Divine. That is all. </p>
			<p class="body-text">All the rest is falsehood – falsehood, falsehood, and falsehood that must disappear. There is only one reality, there is only one life, there is only one consciousness (Mother brings down her fist): the Divine.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">9</span> July <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1971</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">259</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">60</span>) </p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
