<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-358</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-358" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-380" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor365"></a>Difference between the Physical Mind and the Material Mind – the Object of the Transfer of Power</h2>
			<p class="question-Style">“How do you define this physical mind which was made the object of the transfer of power?</p>
			<p class="body-text">It is not the physical mind. It is long since the physical mind has changed…. It is the material mind – not even the material mind: it is the mind of Matter. It is the mental substance which belongs to Matter itself, to the cells. That is what was once called the “spirit of the form”, when it was said that <a id="_idIndexMarker624"></a>mummies kept their body intact as long as the spirit of the form persisted. It is that mind, this wholly material mind. The other, the physical mind, was organised long ago.</p>
			<p class="question-Style">Then what is the difference between this material mind and the physical mind?</p>
			<p class="body-text">The physical mind is the mind of the physical personality formed by the body. It grows with the body, but it is not the mind of Matter: it is the mind of the physical being. For example, it is this physical mind which gives the character – the bodily character, the physical character – and which is in a large measure formed by atavism and by education. All this is called the “physical mind”. Yes, it is the result of atavism, of education and of the formation of the body; it is what forms the physical character. For example, there are people who are patient, people who are strong, etc. – physically I mean, not for vital or mental reasons, but purely physically; you have a character. It is the physical mind. And this is part of all integral yoga; you go through the discipline of this physical mind. More than sixty years ago I did it.</p>
			<p class="question-Style">But then, for example, this mind which is spontaneously defeatist, having all sorts of fears, apprehensions, always seeing the worst, repeating always the same things, is it the physical mind or the material mind?</p>
			<p class="body-text">That is the most unconscious part of the physical mind and that is the link joining the physical mind and this material substance. But it is already an organised mind, you must understand. It is the most material part touching the mind…. How can one call this “mind”? You cannot even call it the bodily mind – it is the mind of the cells, it is a cellular mind.</p>
			<p class="body-text">This cellular mind exists in animals, and even a little (very little, as a promise) beginning in the plants – they respond to a mental action. They do respond. As soon as Life manifests, there is already a promise of mind, of mental movement. And in animals it is clear. Whereas this physical mind truly begins to exist only in man. It is this which very little children already have; they already have a physical mind; that is to say, two babies are not the same, their reactions are not the same, there is already a difference. And it is this, above all, which is given to you with the special form of your body, by atavism, and then fully developed by education.</p>
			<p class="body-text">No, the physical mind, as soon as you take up an integral yoga, must be dealt with; but this material mind, the cellular one, I assure you, is altogether new, yes, altogether new.</p>
			<p class="body-text">It is the mind which was like an unco-ordinated substance, which was constantly active, but not organised (Mother makes a gesture of continuous trepidation). It is this which is now being organised. It is that which is important – for Sri Aurobindo had said that it was unorganisable and it had only to be thrown out of existence. And I too had the same impression. But when the action for transformation upon the cells is constant, this material mind begins to be organised. It is this that is wonderful – it begins to be organised. And as it is being organised, it learns to keep silent – that is most remarkable! It learns to keep quiet, keep silent and allow the supreme Force to act without interfering.</p>
			<p class="body-text">The greatest difficulty is in the nerves, because they are so accustomed to the ordinary conscious will that when it stops and the direct Action from the highest is asked for, they go mad, as it were. The other day I had this <a id="_idIndexMarker625"></a>experience, which lasted more than an hour, and it was difficult; but this taught me many things – many. And all this is what can be called the “transfer of power”; the former power withdraws; and then before the body adapts itself to the new power, there is a period which is critical. As all the cells are in a state of constant aspiration, it goes relatively quickly, but all the same… the minutes are long.</p>
			<p class="body-text">But more and more there is a kind of certitude in the cells that whatever happens is in view of this transformation and this transfer of directing power. And even at the time when it is materially painful (not even physically: materially painful), the cells keep this certitude. And then they resist, they bear the suffering without depression, without being affected in any way, with this certitude that it is to prepare for the transformation, the process of transformation and of the transfer of directing power. As I said, it is in the nerves that the experience is the most painful – naturally, because they are the most sensitive cells, those that have the most acute sensation. But they have a very considerable, very spontaneous, spontaneously strong receptivity – without any effort – to the harmonious physical vibration (which is very rare, but still it exists in some individuals). And this physical vibration, what might be called a physical force, a harmonious physical vibration (spontaneously harmonious, without the necessity of a mental vibration, like the vibrations of a flower, for example; there are physical vibrations like that, which carry in themselves a harmonious force) – the nerves are extremely sensitive and receptive to this vibration, which puts them right immediately.</p>
			<p class="body-text">It is very interesting, it explains much, explains many things. A day will come when all this will be explained and put in its place. It is not yet the time to reveal, but it is very interesting.</p>
			<p class="body-text">I have truly the impression that it is being organised, the work has begun to be organised.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Naturally, one must carefully avoid allowing a mental organisation to intervene; that is why I do not try to explain too much; the mind would come in and then it is no more that.” <br /><span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">21</span> August <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1965</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">18</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">21</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
