<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-186</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-186" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-198" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor187"></a>The Mother’s Experience of <a id="_idIndexMarker344"></a>Ganapati and <a id="_idIndexMarker345"></a>Kali </h2>
			<p class="body-text">“I have found that there is really a Ganapati – something I didn’t believe. I used to think it was a purely human formation, that story of the elephant head – but there is a being like that. I saw it, it is quite alive, and it is not a formation. So too there is a black Kali with her garland of skulls and her huge hanging tongue. I have seen her. I saw her entering my room with her eyes wide open. So I am sure she exists. And it was not a human formation: it was a being – a real being. Now, it is possible that some of the details may have been added by human thought. But still the being was a real being, it was not purely a formation.</p>
			<p class="question-Style">What does that black Kali do?</p>
			<p class="body-text">Well, I believe she does fairly bad things! It is obvious that she takes a great pleasure in destruction.</p>
			<p class="body-text">That one – it was at the time of the First World War, the early days of the First War. I was here. I was staying in the house on Dupleix Street, Dupleix House. From the terrace of that house could be seen Sri Aurobindo’s room, the one in the Guest&#160;House. Sri Aurobindo was staying there. He had two rooms and the small terrace. And from the terrace of Dupleix House the terrace of the Guest House could be seen. I don’t know if it can still be seen; that depends on the houses in between, but at that time it could. And I used to sit on the terrace to meditate every morning, facing Sri Aurobindo’s room. That day I was in my room, but looking at Sri Aurobindo’s room through a small window. I was in meditation but my eyes were open. I saw this Kali entering through my door; I asked her, “What do you want?” And she was dancing, a truly savage dance. She told me, “Paris is taken, Paris will be destroyed.” We used to have no news; it was just at the beginning of the war. I was in meditation. I turned towards her and told her, “No, Paris will not be taken, Paris will be saved”, quietly, just like this, but with a certain force. She made a face and went away. And the next day, we received the “dispatch”. In those days there were no radios yet, we had telegraph messages, “dispatches”, which were proclaimed, posted on the gate of the Government House. We got the news that the Germans had been marching upon Paris, that Paris was not defended; the way was quite open, they had to advance only a few kilometres more and they would have entered the city. But when they saw that the road was clear, that there was nobody to oppose them, they felt convinced that it was an ambush; that a trap had been set for them. So they turned round and went back! (Laughter) And when the French armies saw that, naturally they gave chase and caught them, and there was a battle. It was the decisive battle: they were stopped. Well, evidently it was that. It took this form: When I said to Kali, “No”, they were panic-stricken. They turned back. Otherwise, if they had continued to advance it would have been all over.</p>
			<p class="question-Style">What is <a id="_idIndexMarker346"></a>Mahakali like?</p>
			<p class="body-text">Well, my children, when you see her, you can tell me! She is not like that Kali. All I can tell you is that she is not black, she&#160;doesn’t stick out a big tongue, and she doesn’t wear a necklace of human heads!” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">17</span> March <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1954</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">68</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">70</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
