<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-170</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-170" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-180" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor174"></a>The Importance of an Absolute Trust and Faith in Life</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“One should know of what stuff the <a id="_idIndexMarker319"></a>faith and the <a id="_idIndexMarker320"></a>trust are made. Because, for instance, if you live normally, under quite normal conditions – without having extravagant ideas and a depressing education – well, through all your youth and usually till you are about thirty, you have an absolute <a id="_idIndexMarker321"></a>trust in life. If, for example, you are not surrounded by people who, as soon as you have a cold in the head, get into a flurry and rush to the doctor and give you medicines, if you are in normal surroundings and happen to have something – an accident or a slight illness – there is this certainty in the body, this absolute trust that it will be all right: “It is nothing, it will pass off. It is sure to go. I shall be quite well tomorrow or in a few days. It will surely be cured” – whatever you may have caught. That is indeed the normal condition of the body. An absolute trust that all life lies before it and that all will be well. And this helps enormously. One gets cured nine times out of ten, one gets cured very quickly with this confidence: “It is nothing; what is it after all? Just an accident, it will pass off, it is nothing.” And there are people who keep it for a very long time, a very long time, a kind of confidence – nothing can happen to them. Their life is all before them, fully, and nothing can happen to them. And what will happen to them is of no importance at all: all will be well, necessarily; they have the whole of life before them. Naturally, if you live in surroundings where there are morbid ideas and people pass their time recounting disastrous and catastrophic things, then you may think wrongly. And if you think wrongly, this reacts on your body. Otherwise, the body as it is can keep this confidence till the age of forty or fifty – it depends upon people – some know how to live a normal, balanced life. But the body is quite confident about its life. It is only if thought comes in and brings all kinds of morbid and unhealthy imaginations, as I said, that it changes everything. I have seen instances like that: children who had these little accidents one has when running and playing about: they did not even think about it. And it disappeared immediately. I have seen others whose family has drummed into them since the time they could understand, that everything is dangerous, that there are microbes everywhere, that one must be very careful, that the least wound may prove disastrous, that one must be altogether on one’s guard and take great care that nothing serious happens…. So, they must have their wounds dressed, must be washed with disinfectants, and there they sit wondering: “What is going to happen to me? Oh! I may perhaps get tetanus, a septic fever….” Naturally, in such cases one loses confidence in life and the body feels the effects keenly. Three-fourths of its resistance disappears. But normally, naturally, it is the body which knows that it must remain healthy, and it knows it has the power to react. And if something happens, it tells this something: “It is nothing, it will go away, don’t think about it, it is over”; and it does go.</p>
			<p class="body-text">That of course is <a id="_idIndexMarker322"></a>absolute trust.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">7</span> October <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1953</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">296</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">97</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
