<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-528</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-528" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-556" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor540"></a>Mistakes and Impurities</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“Do not give too much importance to the little incidents of life.</p>
			<p class="body-text">The importance of these incidents lies in the extent to which they have served you to make a progress.</p>
			<p class="body-text">And once the progress has been made, the consequences of past errors, if there are any, disappear through the intervention of the divine Grace.” (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">234</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“For the Supreme Lord, sin does not exist – all defect can be effaced by sincere aspiration and by transformation.</p>
			<p class="body-text">What you feel is the aspiration of your soul that wants to discover the Divine and live Him.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Persevere, be more and more sincere and you will succeed.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">24</span> April <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1964</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">234</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“If you make one mistake in life, then you may have to suffer all your life. It does not mean that everybody suffers like that. There are people who go on making mistakes and yet they do not suffer. But those who are born for a spiritual life have to be very careful.” (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">234</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“Thinking too much about one’s impurities does not help. It is better to keep the thought fixed on the purity, light and peace that one wants to acquire.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">7</span> February <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1934</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">235</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
