<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-315</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-315" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-335" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor320"></a>How the True Wisdom Comes</h2>
			<p class="MotherAphorism">“6 – Late, I learned that when reason died then <a id="_idIndexMarker566"></a>Wisdom was born; before that liberation, I had only knowledge.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Once again I must repeat that the form of these Aphorisms is purposely paradoxical in order to give the mind a little shock and awaken it enough for it to make an effort to understand. One must not take this Aphorism literally. Some people seem worried by the idea that reason must disappear for one to become wise. It is not that, it is not that at all.</p>
			<p class="body-text"><a id="_idIndexMarker567"></a>Reason must no longer be the summit and the master.</p>
			<p class="body-text">For a very long time in life, until one possesses anything resembling Knowledge, it is indispensable that reason be the master, otherwise one is the plaything of one’s impulses, one’s fancies, one’s more or less disordered emotional imaginings, and one is in danger of being very far removed not merely from wisdom but even from the knowledge needed for conducting oneself acceptably. But when one has managed to control all the lower parts of the being with the help of reason, which is the apex of ordinary human intelligence, then if one wants to go beyond this point, if one wants to liberate oneself from ordinary life, from ordinary thought, from the ordinary vision of things, one must, if I may say so, stand upon the head of reason, not trampling it down disdainfully, but using it as a stepping stone to something higher, something beyond it, to attain to something which concerns itself very little with the decrees of reason; something which can allow itself to be irrational because it is a higher irrationality, with a higher light; something which is beyond ordinary knowledge and which receives its inspirations from above, from high above, from the divine Wisdom.</p>
			<p class="body-text">...True wisdom comes only when the ego disappears, and the ego disappears only when you are ready to abandon yourself completely to the supreme Lord without any personal motive and without any expectation of profit – when you do it because you cannot do otherwise.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">17</span> October <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1958</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">14</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">16</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
