<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-466</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-466" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-494" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor478"></a>The Divine Is with You*</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“Never forget that you are not alone. The Divine is with you helping and guiding you. He is the companion who never fails, the friend whose love comforts and strengthens. Have faith and He will do everything for you.”</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“Never forget that you are not alone. The Divine is with you helping and guiding you. He is the companion who never fails, the friend whose love comforts and strengthens. The more you feel lonely, the more you are ready to perceive His luminous Presence. Have faith and He will do everything for you.” <br /><span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">27</span> September <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1951</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">9</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“In the Divine’s light we shall see, in the Divine’s knowledge we shall know, in the Divine’s will we shall realise.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1</span> October <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1954</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">12</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“The Divine’s triumph is so perfect that every obstacle, every ill-will, every hatred rising against Him is a promise of a vaster and still completer victory.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">9</span> October <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1954</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">12</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“The Divine is the sure friend who never fails, the Power, the Support, the Guide. The Divine is the Light which scatters darkness, the conqueror who assures the victory.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">23</span> December <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1954</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">14</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“A single occupation, a single aim, a single joy – the Divine.” (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">14</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“It is the Divine Presence that gives value to life. This Presence is the source of all peace, all joy, all security. Find this Presence in yourself and all your difficulties will disappear.” (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">15</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“Let all thoughts, all feelings, all actions, all hopes be turned towards the Divine and concentrated on Him. He is our only help and our only safety.” (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">16</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
