<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-360</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-360" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-382" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor367"></a>The Mother’s View of the Hallucinogenic Drug LSD</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“You have heard about those <a id="_idIndexMarker627"></a>drugs? Have you seen any pictures?… I have. People are thrust without the least defence into the lowest vital, and according to their nature they find it either frightful or marvellous. For example, the cloth covering a cushion or a chair suddenly takes on a wondrous beauty. This lasts for about two or three hours. Naturally, they are completely out of their senses the whole time. And the pity of it is that people call these “spiritual experiences”, and there is nobody to tell them that this has nothing to do with spiritual experience.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Some time ago I received a letter from someone who told me he had taken these drugs, and he said he had had terrible visions, that the walls of his room were alive with thousands of evil and desperate faces which persecuted him till nightfall. There you are!</p>
			<p class="body-text">And so this gave me yet another proof…. I saw pictures in Life – there were some photographs – it was as though you had entered a madhouse. For these are images registered in the subconscient – images of thoughts, images of sensations, images of feelings, registered in the subconscient – which become objective, which come up to the surface and become objective. Thus they give the exact picture of what is within.</p>
			<p class="body-text">For instance, if you have the feeling or thought that someone is wicked or ridiculous or does not like you, in short, ideas of this kind – generally all this comes up in dream, but here you are not asleep and you have the dream! – they come to play the game you have thought of; what you have thought of them comes back upon you in their form. So this is an indication: for those who see happy, amiable, beautiful images, this means that within, everything is going on quite well (vitally), but for those who see terrifying or evil things, or things of that sort, it means that the vital is not pretty.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">18</span> May <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1966</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">35</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">36</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
