<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-370</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-370" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-392" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor377"></a>It Is Perfection at Each Moment</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“At each instant. There is no other thing… When I was there, there was no other thing. And yet, as I have told you, it was the time when I was physically extremely busy – all the work was being done, without disturbing anything; on the contrary, I believe I was doing things much better than usual… I do not know how to explain. It was not, as it were, a thing “added”: it was quite natural.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Life as it is can be lived in that consciousness – but it is then lived quite well!… Nothing needs to be changed, what is to be changed changes itself quite naturally.</p>
			<p class="body-text">I am going to give you an example. For a few days, I had some difficulty with… I will not name him; pressure had to be put on him to correct some of his movements. Today he was conscious of it in quite a different way from the usual, and in the end he said that he was on the way to change (that is true), and all that not only without a word, but without any movement of the consciousness for putting pressure. There you are. That is a proof…. All is done automatically, as an imposition of the Truth without any necessity of intervention: simply to remain in the true consciousness, that is all, that is sufficient.</p>
			<p class="body-text">But then, in spite of everything, the body kept just a little consciousness of its needs all the while (although it was not busy with itself; I was always saying: It is not busy with itself, it is not interested). But that is what Sri Aurobindo used to say: I feel I am still the old man. I understood that this morning, for it was no longer there. Well, this sort of a very quiet perception of what is still not all right – a pain here, a difficulty there – very calm, very indifferent, but it is perceived (without its taking any importance), and even that gone, wholly swept away!… I hope it won’t come back. It is really… this, I understand, it is a transformation. One is conscious in a golden vastness – my child, it is wonderful – luminous, golden, peaceful, eternal, all-powerful.</p>
			<p class="body-text">And how it is coming…. No word is there to express it indeed, this wonder regarding the Grace…. The Grace, the Grace is a thing that surpasses all comprehension, with its clear-seeing kindliness…. Naturally the body had the experience. Something had happened that I will not tell you and it had the true reaction; it had not the old reaction, it had the true reaction – it smiled, with the Smile of the supreme Lord – it smiled. That was there for a whole day and a half. And it was this difficulty which enabled the body to make the last progress, enabled it to live in this Consciousness: if all had been harmonious, things could have lasted still for years – it is wonderful, wonderful!</p>
			<p class="body-text">And how stupid men are! When the Grace has come to them, they push it away, saying, “Oh! What horror!”… That I have known for a long time, but my experience is… dazzling.</p>
			<p class="question-Style">Yes, each thing is perfectly, wonderfully what it ought to be at every moment.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Quite so.</p>
			<p class="question-Style">But it is our vision that is not attuned.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Yes, it is our separated consciousness.</p>
			<p class="body-text">The whole has been brought with lightning rapidity towards the consciousness that will be the Consciousness of the point and of the all, at the same time.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">19</span> November <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1969</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">205</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">06</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
