<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-258</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-258" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-274" class="SubHead1">The Story of Mother’s Childhood Desire to Create a Little World of Her Own</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“You take up some work which is quite material, like cleaning the floor or dusting a room; well, it seems to me that this work can lead to a very deep consciousness if it is done with a certain feeling for perfection and progress; while other work considered of a higher kind as, for example, studies or literary and artistic work, if done with the idea of seeking fame or for the satisfaction of one’s vanity or for some material gain, will not help you to progress. So this is already a kind of classification which depends more on the inner <a id="_idIndexMarker474"></a>attitude than on the outer fact. But this classification can be applied to everything.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Of course, there is a kind of work which is done only for purely pecuniary and personal reasons, like the one – whatever it may be – which is done to earn a living. That attitude is exactly the one Sri Aurobindo compares with the damp logs of wood which are heaped so thick the flame cannot leap up. It has something dark and heavily dull about it.</p>
			<p class="body-text">And this brings us to something which I have already told you several times, but which presents a problem not yet solved by circumstances. I think I have already spoken to you about it, but still I shall speak about it again this evening because of this sentence of Sri Aurobindo’s.</p>
			<p class="body-text">At the beginning of my present earthly existence I came into contact with many people who said that they had a great inner aspiration, an urge towards something deeper and truer, but that they were tied down, subjected, slaves to that brutal necessity of earning their living, and that this weighed them down so much, took up so much of their time and energy that they could not engage in any other activity, inner or outer. I heard this very often, I saw many poor people – I don’t mean poor from the monetary point of view, but poor because they felt imprisoned in a material necessity, narrow and deadening.</p>
			<p class="body-text">I was very young at that time, and I always used to tell myself that if ever I could do it, I would try to create a little world – oh! quite a small one, but still… a small world where people would be able to live without having to be preoccupied with food and lodging and clothing and the imperative necessities of life, so as to see whether all the energies freed by this certainty of a secure material living would turn spontaneously towards the divine life and the inner realisation.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Well, towards the middle of my life – at least, what is usually the middle of a human life – the means were given to me and I could realise this, that is, create such conditions of life. And I have come to this conclusion, that it is not this necessity which hinders people from consecrating themselves to an inner realisation, but that it is a dullness, a tamas, a lack of aspiration, a miserable laxity, an I-don’t-care attitude, and that those who face even the hardest conditions of life are sometimes the ones who react most and have the intensest aspiration.</p>
			<p class="body-text">That’s all. I am waiting for the contrary to be proved to me.</p>
			<p class="body-text">I would very much like to see the contrary but I haven’t yet seen it. As there are many energies which are not utilised, since this terrible compulsion of having something to eat or a roof to sleep under or clothes on one’s back does not exist – as one is sure of all that – there is a whole mass of energies which are not utilised for that; well, they are spent in idle stupidities. And of these, the foolishness which seems to me the most disastrous is to keep one’s tongue going: chatter, chatter, chatter. I haven’t known a place where they chatter more than here, and say everything they should not say, busy themselves with things they should not be concerned with. And I know it is merely an overflow of unused energy.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">30</span> May <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1956</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">160</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">61</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
