<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-321</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-321" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-341" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor326"></a><a id="_idIndexMarker578"></a>Despair – Not a Necessity for Progress</h2>
			<p class="MotherAphorism">“31 – What I wished or thought to be the right thing does not come about; therefore it is clear that there is no All-Wise one who guides the world but only blind Chance or a brute Causality.</p>
			<p class="question-Style">For some people events are always contrary to what they desire or aspire for or believe to be good for them. They often despair. Is this a necessity for their progress?</p>
			<p class="body-text">Despair is never a necessity for progress, it is always a sign of weakness and tamas; it often indicates the presence of an adverse force, that is to say, a force that is purposely acting against sadhana.</p>
			<p class="body-text">So, in all circumstances of life you must always be very careful to guard against despair. Besides, this habit of being sombre, morose, of despairing, does not truly depend on events, but on a lack of faith in the nature. One who has faith, even if only in himself, can face all difficulties, all circumstances, even the most adverse, without discouragement or despair. He fights like a man to the end. Natures that lack faith also lack endurance and courage.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">4</span> May <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1960</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">55</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">56</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
