<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-22</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-22" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-24" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor023"></a>October 23, 1937*</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“(A prayer for those who wish to serve the Divine)</p>
			<p class="body-text">GLORY to Thee, O Lord, who triumphest over every obstacle. </p>
			<p class="body-text">Grant that nothing in us shall be an obstacle in Thy work.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Grant that nothing may retard Thy manifestation.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Grant that Thy will may be done in all things and at every moment.</p>
			<p class="body-text">We stand here before Thee that Thy will may be fulfilled in us, in every element, in every activity of our being, from our supreme heights to the smallest cells of the body.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Grant that we may be faithful to Thee utterly and for ever.</p>
			<p class="body-text">We would be completely under Thy influence to the exclusion of every other.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Grant that we may never forget to own towards Thee a deep, an intense gratitude.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Grant that we may never squander any of the marvellous things that are Thy gifts to us at every instant.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Grant that everything in us may collaborate in Thy work and all be ready for Thy realisation.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Glory to Thee, O Lord, Supreme Master of all realisation.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Give us a faith active and ardent, absolute and unshakable in Thy Victory.” (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">382</span>)</p>
		</div>
		<div class="_idGenObjectLayout-1">
			<div id="_idContainer011" class="Basic-Graphics-Frame">
			</div>
		</div>
		<div id="_idContainer012">
			<h1 id="_idParaDest-25" class="Headline"><a id="_idTextAnchor024"></a>Volume 2</h1>
			<h1 id="_idParaDest-26" class="Headline"><a id="_idTextAnchor025"></a>Words of Long Ago</h1>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
