<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-187</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-187" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-199" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor188"></a><a id="_idIndexMarker347"></a>Ascetic Practices and the Joy of the Vital in <a id="_idIndexMarker348"></a>Suffering </h2>
			<p class="body-text">“...there are ascetics who sleep on nails. Have you never seen them? I have seen some photographs myself. This sort of thing is done; they sleep upon a nail-bed. Even quite recently I saw a photograph like that. Well, they do that for… I don’t know if it is to prove their saintliness. You know, when they do this in public, one always suspects that it is a bit of histrionics. But still there are those who can do it sincerely, in the sense that they don’t do it for display. And so these, if they are asked why they do it, say that it is to prove to themselves that they are detached from the body. And there are others who go still farther: they say that the body must be made to suffer in order to liberate the spirit. Well, if you ask me, I would say that behind this there is a vital taste for suffering which imposes suffering on the body because the vital takes a very perverse pleasure in suffering. I have known children who had hurt themselves somewhere or other and who pressed as hard as they could on the injury to make it hurt still more! And they took pleasure in it. I have known grown-ups also. Morally, it is a very well-known fact. I spend my time telling people, “If you are unhappy, it is because you want to be. If you suffer, it is because you like suffering, otherwise you would not suffer.” This sort of thing I call unhealthy, for it is against harmony and beauty, it is a kind of morbid need for strong sensations.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">17</span> March <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1954</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">70</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
