<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-319</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-319" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-339" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor324"></a>The Truth behind <a id="_idIndexMarker572"></a>Cruelty and <a id="_idIndexMarker573"></a>Torture</h2>
			<p class="MotherAphorism">“27 – God is a great and cruel Torturer because He loves. You do not understand this, because you have not seen and played with Krishna.</p>
			<p class="question-Style">What does “to play with Krishna” mean? What does “God is a great and cruel Torturer” mean?</p>
			<p class="body-text"><a id="_idIndexMarker574"></a>Krishna is the immanent Divine, the Divine Presence in everyone and in all things. He is also, sovereignly, the aspect of Delight and Love of the Supreme; he is the smiling tenderness and the playful gaiety; he is at once the player, the play and all his playmates. And as both the game and its results are wholly known, conceived, willed, organised and played consciously in their entirety, there can be room for nothing but the delight of the play. Thus to see Krishna means to find the inner Godhead, to play with Krishna means to be identified with the inner Godhead and to share in his consciousness. When you achieve this state, you enter immediately into the bliss of the divine play; and the more complete the identification, the more perfect the state.</p>
			<p class="body-text">But if some corner of the consciousness keeps the ordinary perception, the ordinary understanding, the ordinary sensation, then you see the suffering of others, you find the play that causes so much suffering very cruel and you conclude that the God who takes pleasure in such a play must be a terrible Torturer; but on the other hand, when you have had the experience of identification with the Divine, you cannot forget the immense, the wonderful love which he puts into his play, and you understand that it is the limitation of our vision that makes us judge in this way, and that far from being a voluntary Torturer, he is the great beneficent love that guides the world and men, by the quickest routes, in their progressive march towards perfection, a perfection which, moreover, is always relative and is always being surpassed.</p>
			<p class="body-text">But a day will come when this apparent suffering will no longer be required to stimulate the advance and when progress can be made more and more in harmony and delight.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">6</span> April <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1960</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">51</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">52</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
