<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-32</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-32" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-36" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor035"></a>Thoughts Expressing Craving</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“All the thoughts of worldly-minded people whose only aim is enjoyment and physical diversion, express <a id="_idIndexMarker017"></a>craving.</p>
			<p class="body-text">All the thoughts of intellectual creators or artists thirsting for esteem, fame and honour, express craving.</p>
			<p class="body-text">All the thoughts of the ruling class and the officials hankering after more power and influence, express craving.</p>
			<p class="body-text">All the thoughts of the thousands of employees and workmen, of all the oppressed, the unfortunate, the downtrodden struggling for some improvement of their cheerless existence, express craving.</p>
			<p class="body-text">All, rich or poor, powerful or weak, privileged or deprived, intellectual or obtuse, learned or ignorant, all want gold, always more gold to satisfy all their cravings.</p>
			<p class="body-text">If from place to place there occasionally flashes out a spark of pure and disinterested thought, of will to do well, of sincere seeking for truth, it is very soon swallowed up by this material flood that rolls like a sea of slime….</p>
			<p class="body-text">And yet we must kindle the stars that one by one will come to illumine this night.</p>
			<p class="body-text">But for the moment we are living within it, soaking it up, for in the mental as in the physical domain we are in a state of perpetual interchange with the environment.</p>
			<p class="body-text">This is to point out to you how we are contaminated each day, at each minute.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Can any one of us say that she has never felt craving and that she will never feel it again? Besides, how could we not feel craving when the atmosphere we breathe is saturated with it? How could we not feel this host of desires rising in ourselves when all the vibrations we receive are made of desires?…</p>
			<p class="body-text">And yet if we want our thought to be beneficial and effective we must free ourselves of this bondage.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">9</span> February <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1912</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">91</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">92</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
