<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-439</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-439" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-465" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor449"></a>Organisation and Work*</h2>
			<p class="question-Style">“[For the Ashram] there has never been, at any time, a mental plan, a fixed programme or an organisation decided beforehand. The whole thing has taken birth, grown and developed as a living being by a movement of consciousness (Chit-tapas) constantly maintained, increased and fortified.”</p>
			<p class="question-Style">Sri Aurobindo (22 August 1939)</p>
			<p class="body-text">That is to say, the movement of consciousness has never ceased at any moment. It is not that a “movement of creation” was started and then stopped and then again started – constantly the consciousness is recreating, so to say, continues its creation; it is not a thing which has been done and which grows out of what has been done. It continues to be like this. The consciousness is at work constantly, and not as a continuation of what was before, but as a result of what it sees at each instant. In mental movement, there is the consequence of what has been done before – it is not that, it is the consciousness seeing constantly what is to be done. It is extremely important to understand, because it is like this that it continues to work, for everything. It is not at all a “formation” whose growth must be looked after: the consciousness at each second follows – it follows its own movement…. That permits everything; it is just that which permits miracles, reversals, etc.; it permits everything. It is just the opposite of human creations. And it has been like that, it continues to be like that and it will always be like that as long as I am there.” (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">154</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
