<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-209</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-209" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-221" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor210"></a>The <a id="_idIndexMarker392"></a>Divine’s Ways of Acting and Dealing with Human Beings</h2>
			<p class="question-Style">“Mother, why do these people receive the force, since the Divine knows that they are not sincere?</p>
			<p class="body-text">Listen, my child, the Divine never goes by human notions in His ways of acting. You must get that well into your head, once and for all. He probably does things without what we call reasons. But anyway, if He has reasons they are not the same as human reasons, and&#160;certainly&#160;He does&#160;not&#160;have the sense of justice as it is understood by men.</p>
			<p class="body-text">For example, you imagine very easily that a man who is craving for wealth and tries to deceive people in order to get money… According to your idea of justice, this man ought to be deprived of all his wealth and reduced to poverty. We find that usually just the opposite happens. But that, of course, is only a matter of appearances. Behind the appearances, there is something else…. He exchanges this for other possibilities. He may have money, but he no longer has a conscience. And, in fact, what almost always happens is that when he has the money he desired, he is not happy…. And the more he has, usually the less happy he is! He is tormented, you see, by the wealth he has gained.</p>
			<p class="body-text">You must not judge things from an outer success or a semblance of defeat. We may say – and generally this is what almost always happens – we could say that the Divine gives what one desires, and of all lessons this is the best! For, if your desire is inconscient, obscure, egoistic, you increase the unconsciousness, the darkness and egoism within yourself; that is to say, this takes you farther and farther away from the truth, from consciousness&#160;and happiness. It takes you far away from the Divine. And for the Divine, naturally, only one thing is true – the divine Consciousness, the divine Union. And each time you put material things in front, you become more and more materialistic and go farther and farther away from full success.</p>
			<p class="body-text">But for the Truth that other success is a terrible defeat…. You have exchanged truth for falsehood!” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">21</span> July <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1954</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">238</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">39</span>) </p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
