<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-151</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-151" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-161" class="SubHead1">The Great Power of a Spontaneous and <a id="_idIndexMarker280"></a>Unselfish <a id="_idIndexMarker281"></a>Prayer</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“... one may have an aspiration in all the domains, but the very centre of aspiration is in the psychic being, whilst one may pray in all the domains, and the prayer belongs to the domain in which one prays. One may make purely material, physical prayers, vital prayers, mental prayers, psychic prayers, spiritual prayers, and each one has its special character, its special value.</p>
			<p class="body-text">There is a kind of prayer at once spontaneous and unselfish which is like a great call, usually not for one’s own self personally, but like something that may be called an intercession with the Divine. It is extremely powerful. I have had countless instances of things which have been realised almost instantaneously due to prayers of this kind. It implies a great faith, a great ardour, a great sincerity, and a great simplicity of heart also, something that does not calculate, does not plan, does not bargain, does not give with the idea of receiving in exchange. For, the majority of men give with one hand and hold out the other to get something in exchange; the largest number of prayers are of that sort. But there are others of the kind I have described, acts of thanksgiving, a kind of canticle, and these are very good.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">8</span> July <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1953</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">141</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">42</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“To aspire it is not necessary to direct the aspiration to someone, towards someone. One has an aspiration for a certain state of being, for knowledge, for a realisation, a state of consciousness; one aspires for something, but it is not necessarily a prayer; prayer is something additional.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Prayer is a personal thing, addressed to a personal being, that is, to something – a force or a being – who can hear you and answer you. Otherwise you can’t ask for anything.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">8</span> July <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1953</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">143</span>) </p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
