<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-613</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-613" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-643" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor626"></a>The Yoga of the World: The <a id="_idIndexMarker790"></a>Mother’s Experience of the Supreme Love on 12 April 1962</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“Suddenly in the night I woke with the full awareness of what we could call the Yoga of the World. The Supreme Love was manifesting through big pulsations, and each pulsation was bringing the world further in its manifestation. It was the formidable pulsations of the eternal stupendous Love, only Love. Each pulsation of the Love was carrying the universe further in its manifestation.</p>
			<p class="body-text">And there was the certitude that what is to be done is done and that the Supramental Manifestation is realised.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Everything was impersonal, nothing was individual.</p>
			<p class="body-text">This was going on and on and on and on.</p>
			<p class="body-text">The certitude that what is to be done is done.</p>
			<p class="body-text">All the results of the falsehood had disappeared: death was an illusion, sickness was an illusion, ignorance was an illusion – something that had no reality, no existence. Only Love and Love and Love and Love – immense, formidable, stupendous, carrying everything.</p>
			<p class="body-text">And how to express it in the world? It was like an impossibility, because of the contradiction. But then it came: “You have accepted that the world should know the Supramental Truth… and it will be expressed totally, integrally.” Yes, yes….</p>
			<p class="body-text">And the thing is done.</p>
			<p class="body-text">(Long silence)</p>
			<p class="body-text">The individual consciousness came back: just the sense of a limitation, a limitation of pain; without that, no individual.</p>
			<p class="body-text">And we set out again on the way, sure of Victory.</p>
			<p class="body-text">The skies are full of the songs of Victory.</p>
			<p class="body-text">The Truth alone exists; it alone shall be manifested. Forward!</p>
			<p class="body-text">Glory to Thee, Lord, Supreme Triumpher!</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">(Silence)</p>
			<p class="body-text">Now, to the work.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Patience, endurance, perfect equality, and an absolute faith.</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">(Silence)</p>
			<p class="body-text">What I am saying is nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing but words if I come to the experience.</p>
			<p class="body-text">And our consciousness is the same, absolutely the same as that of the Lord. There was no difference, no difference.</p>
			<p class="body-text">We are That, we are That, we are That.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">13</span> April <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1962</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">391</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">92</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
