<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-29</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-29" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-33" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor032"></a>The <a id="_idIndexMarker013"></a>Greatest Obstacle Is in Ourselves </h2>
			<p class="body-text">“This illusion of a self separate from the whole brings about two tendencies within ourselves.</p>
			<p class="body-text">The first comes from an unconscious need for identification with the whole. But by the very fact of the <a id="_idIndexMarker014"></a>illusion of personality, each one conceives this identification only as an absorption into himself and seeks more or less to be the centre of this whole. As a result, in proportion to his intellectual or physical strength, each one attempts to draw to himself everything he is conscious of in order to continually increase his personality.</p>
			<p class="body-text">This is the outcome of a desire which is justified in essence – to become conscious of everything – but ignorant in expression, for if a way to become conscious of everything does exist, it certainly does not lie in trying to draw everything to oneself, which is absurd and unrealisable, but in identifying one’s consciousness with the consciousness of the whole, which demands the very opposite action and attitude.</p>
			<p class="body-text">The second tendency, which is in fact a normal consequence of the first, is an excessively conservative spirit, a fixity of the whole nature – intellectual, moral and physical – which makes it impossible for us to transform ourselves as rapidly as we should in order to be always in harmony with the law of universal progress.</p>
			<p class="body-text">It is as if the individual were afraid of not being different enough from others if he encouraged too free and large an exchange with the whole.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Moreover, this fixity comes from the desire to appropriate and the error of believing that we can own something in the universe. We think that the elements we are made of are our own. Consciously or unconsciously, we want to hold on to them for ourselves while at the same time we are quite ready to add to them by drawing other elements to ourselves; but we forget that since there is no real separation, we can receive nothing if we do not give.</p>
			<p class="body-text">We must be a link in the chain: the link does not grow bigger at the expense of its neighbours. But when it faithfully transmits the current it has received, it will receive another, and the more complete and swift its transmission, the more it will be brought into contact with a great number of forces or things for it to use or manifest. And so, little by little, by taking and keeping nothing for itself, it can become aware of everything by communing with everything.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">21</span> May <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1912</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">55</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">57</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
