<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-28</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-28" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-32" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor031"></a>Finding One’s Place in the Universal Work?</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“We all have a role to fulfil, a work to accomplish, a place which we alone can occupy. </p>
			<p class="body-text">But since this work is the expression, the outer manifestation of the inmost depth of our being, we can become conscious of its definitive form only when we become conscious of this depth within ourselves.</p>
			<p class="body-text">This is what sometimes happens in cases of true conversion.</p>
			<p class="body-text">The moment we perceive the transfiguring light and give ourselves to it without reserve, we can suddenly and precisely become aware of what we are made for, of the purpose of our existence on earth.</p>
			<p class="body-text">But this enlightenment is exceptional. It is brought about within us by a whole series of efforts and inner attitudes. And one of the essential conditions if we want to achieve and maintain within ourselves these attitudes, these soul-states, is to devote part of our time each day to some impersonal action; every day, we must do something useful for others.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Until we know the essential thing we are intended to do, we must therefore find a temporary occupation which will be the best possible manifestation of our present capacities and our goodwill.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Then we shall give ourselves to this occupation with conscientiousness and perseverance, knowing that it may well be only a stage and that with the progress of our ideal and our energies, we shall certainly one day be led to see more clearly the work we must accomplish. To the extent that we lose the habit of referring everything to ourselves and learn more and more to give ourselves more completely, with greater love, to earth and men, we shall see our horizons widen and our duties become more numerous and clear.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">14</span> May <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1912</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">51</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">52</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
