<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-248</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-248" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-262" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor249"></a>Sounds, Pictures and Ideas in the <a id="_idIndexMarker459"></a>Higher Worlds as Compared to Earth</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“There certainly is a <a id="_idIndexMarker460"></a>sound in all the manifested worlds, and when one has the appropriate organs one hears it.</p>
			<p class="body-text">There are sounds which belong to the highest regions, and in fact, the sound we have here gives the feeling of a noise in comparison with that sound.</p>
			<p class="body-text">For example, there are regions harmonious and musical in which one hears something which is the origin of the music we have here – but the sounds of material, physical music seem absolutely barbaric in comparison with that music! When one has heard that, even the most perfect instrument is inadequate. All constructed instruments, among which the violin certainly has the purest sound, are very much inferior in their expression to the music of this world of harmonies.</p>
			<p class="body-text">The human voice when absolutely pure is of all instruments the one which expresses it best; but it is still... it has a sound which seems so harsh, so gross compared with that. When one has been in that region, one truly knows what music is. And it has so perfect a clarity that at the same time as the sound one has the full understanding of what is said. That is, one has the principle of the idea, without words, simply with the sound and all the inflexions of the... one can’t call it sensations, nor feelings... what seems to be closest would be some kind of soul-states or states of consciousness. All these inflexions are clearly perceptible through the nuances of the sound. And certainly, those who were great musicians, geniuses from the point of view of music, must have been more or less consciously in contact with that. The physical world as we have it today is an absolutely gross world; it looks like a caricature.</p>
			<p class="body-text">It’s the same thing with painting: all the pictures we know today look like daubings when one has seen the domain of form and colour, the source of the things expressed through the painting. </p>
			<p class="body-text">And fundamentally it is the same thing from the point of view of ideas. If one enters into contact with the domain of pure ideas beyond words, all words are such limitations, restrictions...it becomes a kind of caricature. The intensity of life contained in the idea is untranslatable. One can receive it if one is capable of entering consciously this domain. One can transmit it to a certain extent if one is master of its vibrations and can let them pass and emanate from him. But all that one says or all that one writes is truly a caricature.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">26</span> October <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1955</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">346</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">47</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
