<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-362</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-362" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-384" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor369"></a>The Only “Objectivity” Is the Supreme</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“If the word “<a id="_idIndexMarker629"></a>objectivity” is taken to mean “real independent existence” – self-existence, independent and real – there is only the Supreme.</p>
			<p class="question-Style">Nevertheless, there is something disquieting about this almost total subjectivity.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Ah, why?</p>
			<p class="question-Style">One wonders what is real, what one really comes across? Isn’t everything a tissue of imagination? This is rather disquieting.</p>
			<p class="body-text">But when one has the positive experience of the one and only existence of the Supreme and that all is only the Supreme playing to Himself, instead of being something disquieting or unpleasant or troubling, it is on the contrary a sort of total security.</p>
			<p class="body-text">The one reality is the Supreme. And all this is a game He plays to Himself. I find this much more comforting than the opposite view.</p>
			<p class="body-text">And after all, this is the only certitude that all this may become something marvellous; otherwise…</p>
			<p class="body-text">And this too depends altogether on the stand one takes. A complete identification with the game as a game, as something self-existent and independent, is probably necessary in the beginning, in order to play the game properly. But there’s a moment when one reaches precisely this detachment and so complete a disgust for all the falsehood of existence, that it is no longer tolerable unless one sees it as the inner play of the Lord in Himself. </p>
			<p class="body-text">And then one feels this absolute and perfect freedom which makes the most marvellous possibilities become real, and all the most sublime things imaginable are realisable.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">18</span> May <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1966</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">39</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">40</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
