<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-229</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-229" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-243" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor231"></a>The Role of <a id="_idIndexMarker427"></a>Reason in Human Life</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“Each time, for example, that one has some kind of vital disorder, of the passions, desires, impulses and all these things, if one calls the reason and looks at these things from the point of view of reason, one can put them back into order. It is truly the role of reason to organise and regulate all the movements of the vital and the mind. For instance, you can call the reason in order to see whether two ideas can go together or whether they contradict each other, whether two theories can stand side by side in your mental construction or one demolishes the other. It belongs to the domain of reason to judge and organise all these things, and also perhaps still more it is the work of reason to see whether the impulses are reasonable or not, whether they will lead to a catastrophe or can be tolerated and will not disturb anything in the life. So, this is its full domain; that’s what Sri Aurobindo says.</p>
			<p class="body-text">But in order to know the value of a religion, whether it truly has the power to put you into contact with the Divine, with the spiritual life, to lead you to it, how can the reason judge, since it is beyond its domain? It knows nothing about it. It is not its field, it understands nothing there. We must use other means. Naturally, that’s how he begins, at the end he will say what means one can use; I don’t know whether it is at the end of these chapters, but in any case he always gives an indication. That’s what this means; he says: Don’t use reason, you cannot judge with it – that’s all.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">25</span> May <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1955</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">167</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
