<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-366</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-366" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-388" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor373"></a>Knowing by the Mental Consciousness versus the Body Consciousness</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“You can explain everything mentally, but that signifies nothing at all: for the body, for the material consciousness it is abstract. The material consciousness, when it seizes something, it knows the thing a hundred times better than one can know it mentally. And when it knows, it has power: this gives the power. And it is this that is worked out slowly, slowly – and for the ignorant consciousness, slowly and painfully. But for the true consciousness, it is not so: pain, delight, all this is a way… so absurd a way of seeing things – of feeling them, seeing them.</p>
			<p class="body-text">There is a perception more and more concrete that everything… that there is nothing that does not contain the delight of being, because it is the way of being: without the delight of being, there is no being. But it is not what we understand mentally by the delight of being. It is… something that is difficult to say. And this perception of suffering and delight, almost of evil and good, all this, these are necessities for the work, to allow the work to be done in a certain field of inconscience. Because the true consciousness is something altogether, altogether different. And this, it is this which this consciousness of the cells is now learning, and learning through a concrete experience, and all these evaluations of what is good and what is bad, of what is suffering and what is delight, all this appears vague. But still the Thing – the Truth – the concrete Thing is not yet seized. It is on the way, one feels that it is on the way, but it is not yet that.</p>
			<p class="body-text">…Sri Aurobindo used to say always that if one went far enough, beyond the Impersonal, if one went further beyond, one would find something that we could call “Person”, but which corresponded to nothing that we conceive of as “Person”.</p>
			<p class="body-text">So then there, there is only That; and it is That which has Power. But even when we say, “There is only That” (Mother laughs), we place it in some other thing!… Words, languages are unfit to express something that is beyond consciousness; as soon as you formulate, it sinks down.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">13</span> March <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1968</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">109</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">10</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
