<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-338</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-338" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-358" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor343"></a>Allow the Lord to Do Everything</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“You are faced with a so-called problem: what should you say, what should you do, how should you act? There is nothing to do, nothing, you only have to say to the Lord, “There, You see, it is like that” – that’s all. And then you stay very quiet. And then quite spontaneously, without thinking about it, without reflection, without calculation, nothing, nothing, without the slightest effort – you do what has to be done. That is to say, the Lord does it, it is no longer you. He does it, He arranges the circumstances, He arranges the people, He puts the words into your mouth or your pen – He does everything, everything, everything, everything; you have nothing more to do but to allow yourself to live blissfully.</p>
			<p class="body-text">I am more and more convinced that people do not really want it.” </p>
			<p class="question-Style">But clearing the ground is difficult, the work of clearing the ground beforehand.</p>
			<p class="body-text">But you don’t even need to do it! He does it for you.</p>
			<p class="question-Style">But they are constantly breaking in: the old consciousness, the old thoughts….</p>
			<p class="body-text">Yes, they try to come in again, by habit. You only have to say, “Lord, You see, You see, You see, it is like that” – that’s all. “Lord, You see, You see this, You see that, You see this fool” – and it is all over immediately. And it changes automatically, my child, without the slightest effort. Simply to be sincere, that is to say, to truly want everything to be right. You are perfectly conscious that you can do nothing about it, that you have no capacity. I feel more and more that this amalgam of matter, like this, of cells, all that, is pitiful. It is pitiful! I do not know whether there are certain states in which people feel powerful, wonderful, luminous, capable; but for me it is because they do not really know what they are like! When you really see how you are made – it is really nothing, nothing. But it is capable of everything, provided… provided that you allow the Lord to act. But there is always something that wants to do it by itself; that’s the trouble, otherwise…</p>
			<p class="body-text">No, you may be full of an excellent goodwill and then you want to do it. That’s what complicates everything. Or else you don’t have faith, you believe that the Lord will not be able to do it and that you must do it yourself, because He does not know! (Mother laughs.) This, this kind of stupidity is very common. “How can He see things? We live in a world of Falsehood, how can He see Falsehood and see…” But He sees the thing as it is! Exactly!” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">12</span> October <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1962</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">150</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">52</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
