<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-178</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-178" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-188" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idIndexMarker331"></a><a id="_idTextAnchor177"></a>Spiritual Realisation Possible without Ever Having a Vision</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“...there are some rather uneducated people, for instance, who suddenly develop a faculty and have a direct experience somewhere in the higher mind or the psychic being or in some other part of the being. There are many reasons for this: it may be the result of former lives, it may be a phenomenon of consciousness of this life, it could be many things. In any case, for it to be fully useful, it should be done with the will to use it for one’s progress and become conscious of the different parts of the being in order to be able to do what one ought to do to the best of one’s ability. For instance, I have known people who were absolutely ignorant and uneducated but had a gift of vision, and a remarkable gift: they were put into trance and saw marvellously and described things – they knew how to see and describe all they saw whilst they were seeing it. But when they came out of that condition, they were absolutely ordinary beings without any education and intelligence. Yet that was a marvellous gift. That means there are beings who can make the greatest progress from the spiritual point of view, and even the intellectual, and who yet are apparently and in their outer life quite ordinary. There are others – I have known some who had an absolutely marvellous spiritual realisation, who lived constantly in the divine Presence and yet never had a vision in all their life! And they used to complain about it…. It is a question of temperament, destiny, and probably of the work one has to do, for evidently one can’t do everything – physically it is impossible. Consequently one must choose.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">23</span> December <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1953</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">400</span>)</p>
		</div>
		<div class="_idGenObjectLayout-1">
			<div id="_idContainer020" class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			</div>
		</div>
		<div class="_idGenObjectLayout-1">
			<div id="_idContainer021" class="Basic-Graphics-Frame">
			</div>
		</div>
		<div id="_idContainer022">
			<h1 id="_idParaDest-189" class="Headline"><a id="_idTextAnchor178"></a>Volume 6</h1>
			<h1 id="_idParaDest-190" class="Headline"><a id="_idTextAnchor179"></a>Questions and Answers 1954</h1>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
