<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-142</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-142" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-152" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor148"></a>The State of Perfect <a id="_idIndexMarker247"></a>Union with the Divine and the Transformation of the Body</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“I heard a Sufi mystic, who was besides a great musician, an Indian, saying that for the Sufis there was a state higher than that of adoration and surrender to the Divine, than that of devotion, that this was not the last stage; the last stage of the progress is when there is no longer any distinction; you have no longer this kind of adoration or surrender or consecration; it is a very simple state in which one makes no distinction between the Divine and oneself. They know this. It is even written in their books. It is a commonly known condition in which everything becomes quite simple. There is no longer any difference. There is no longer that kind of ecstatic surrender to “Something” which is beyond you in every way, which you do not understand, which is merely the result of your aspiration, your devotion. There is no difference any longer. When the union is perfect, there is no longer any difference.</p>
			<p class="question-Style">Is this the end of self-progress?</p>
			<p class="body-text">There is never any end to progress – never any end, you can never put a full stop there.</p>
			<p class="question-Style">Can that happen before the transformation of the body?</p>
			<p class="body-text">Before the transformation of the body?… This is a phenomenon of consciousness. For instance, the physical consciousness may have this experience even for years before the cells change. There is a great difference between the physical consciousness (the <a id="_idIndexMarker248"></a>body consciousness) and the material body. This takes a long time, because it is a thing that has never been done. That state, as I have already told you, is a commonly known state which has been realised by some people, the most advanced, the highest among the mystics; but the transformation of the body has never been done by anyone.</p>
			<p class="body-text">And it takes a terribly long time. Sri Aurobindo said – one day I asked him: “How long will it take to transform the body?” He did not hesitate, he said: “Oh! something like three hundred years.”</p>
			<p class="question-Style">Three hundred years from when?</p>
			<p class="body-text">Three hundred years from the time one has the consciousness I was just speaking about. (Laughter)</p>
			<p class="body-text">No, the conclusion, what you must succeed in doing, is to be able to prolong life at will: not to leave the body until one wants to.</p>
			<p class="body-text">So, if one has resolved to transform the body, well, one must wait with all the necessary patience – three hundred years, five hundred years, a thousand years, it does not matter – the time needed for the change. As for me, I see that three hundred years is a minimum. To tell you the truth, with the experience I have of things, I think it is truly a minimum.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Just imagine. You have never thought about what it means, have you? How is your body built? In a purely animal way, with all the organs and all the functions. You are absolutely dependent: if your heart stops for even the thousandth part of a second, you are gone and that’s the end. The whole thing works and works automatically without your conscious will (happily for you, for if you had to supervise the functioning, it would have gone the wrong way long ago). All that is there. Everything is necessary, because it was organised in that manner. You cannot do without an organ, at least totally; there must be something in you representing it.</p>
			<p class="body-text"><a id="_idIndexMarker249"></a>Transformation implies that all this purely material arrangement is replaced by an arrangement of concentrations of force having certain types of different vibrations substituting each organ by a centre of conscious energy moved by a conscious will and directed by a movement coming from above, from higher regions. No stomach, no heart any longer, no circulation, no lungs, no… All this disappears. But it is replaced by a whole set of vibrations representing what those organs are symbolically. For the <a id="_idIndexMarker250"></a>organs are only the material symbols of centres of energy; they are not the essential reality; they simply give it a form or a support in certain given circumstances. The transformed body will then function through its real centres of energy and not any longer through their symbolic representatives such as were developed in the animal body. Therefore, first of all you must know what your heart represents in the cosmic energy and what the circulation represents and what the stomach and the brain represent. To begin with, you must first be conscious of all that. And then, you must have at your disposal the original vibrations of that which is symbolised by these organs. And you must slowly gather together all these energies in your body and change each organ into a centre of conscious energy which will replace the symbolic movement by the real one…. You believe it will take only three hundred years to do that? I believe it will take much more time to have a form with qualities which will not be exactly those we know, but will be much superior; a form that one naturally dreams to see plastic: as the expression of your face changes with your feelings, so the body will change (not the form but within the same form) in accordance with what you want to express with your body. It can become very concentrated, very developed, very luminous, very quiet, with a perfect plasticity, with a perfect elasticity and then a lightness at will… Have you never dreamt of giving a kick to the ground and then soaring into the air, flying away? You move about. You push a little with your shoulder, you go this way; you push again, you go that way; and you go wherever you like, quite easily; and finally when you have finished you come back, enter your body. Well, you must be able to do that with your body, and also certain things related to respiration – but there will no longer be lungs; there’s a true movement behind a symbolic movement which gives you this capacity of lightness; you do not belong any longer to the system of gravitation, you escape it.<span id="footnote-005-backlink"><a class="_idFootnoteLink _idGenColorInherit" href="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-142.xhtml#footnote-005">[1]</a></span> And so for each organ.</p>
			<p class="body-text">There is no end to imagination: to be luminous whenever one wants it, to be transparent whenever one wants it. Naturally there is no longer any need of any bones also in the system; it is not a skeleton with skin and viscera, it is another thing. It is concentrated energy obeying the will. This does not mean that there will no longer be any definite and recognisable forms; the form will be built by qualities rather than by solid particles. It will be, if one may say so, a practical or pragmatic form; it will be supple, mobile, light at will, in contrast to the fixity of the gross material form.</p>
			<p class="body-text">So, to change this into what I have just described, I believe three hundred years are truly very little. It seems many more than that are needed. Perhaps with a very, very, very concentrated work…</p>
			<p class="question-Style">Three hundred years with the same body?</p>
			<p class="body-text">Well, there is change, it is no longer the same body.</p>
			<p class="body-text">But, you see, when our little humanity says three hundred years with the same body, you say: “Why! when I am fifty it already begins to decompose, so at three hundred it will be a horrible thing!” But it is not like that. If it is three hundred years with a body that goes on perfecting itself from year to year, perhaps when the three hundredth year is reached one will say: “Oh! I still need three or four hundred more to be what I want to be.” If each year that passes represents a progress, a transformation, one would like to have more and more years in order to be able to transform oneself more and more. When something is not exactly as you want it to be – take, for example, simply one of the things I have just described, say, <a id="_idIndexMarker257"></a>plasticity or lightness or elasticity or luminosity, and none of them is exactly as you want it, then you will still need at least two hundred years more so that it may be accomplished, but you never think: “How is it? It is still going to last two hundred years more!” On the contrary, you say: “Two hundred years more are absolutely necessary so that it may be truly done.” And then, when all is done, when all is perfect, then there is no longer any question of years, for you are immortal.</p>
			<p class="body-text">But there are many objections that may be raised. It may be said that it would be impossible for the body to change unless something changes in the surroundings also. What would be your relation with other objects if you have changed so much? With other beings also? It seems necessary that a whole set of things changes, at least in relative proportions, so that one can exist, continue to exist. This then brings much complication, for it is no longer one individual consciousness that has to do the work, it becomes a collective consciousness. And so it is much more difficult still.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">20</span> May <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1953</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">57</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">61</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">APPENDIX*</p>
			<p class="body-text">(Extract from a Talk of Sri Aurobindo with<br />a French scientist-disciple)</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">8</span> May <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1926</span></p>
			<p class="body-text">“In the West the highest minds are turned not towards spiritual truth but towards material science. The scope of science is very narrow, it touches only the most exterior part of the physical plane.</p>
			<p class="body-text">And even there, what does <a id="_idIndexMarker258"></a>science know really? It studies the functioning of the laws, builds theories ever renewed and each time held up as the last word of truth! We had recently the atomic theory, now comes the electronic.</p>
			<p class="body-text">There are, for instance, two statements of modern science that would stir up deeper ranges for an occultist:</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1</span>. Atoms are whirling systems like the solar system.</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">2</span>. The atoms of all the elements are made out of the same constituents. Different arrangement is the only cause of different properties.</p>
			<p class="body-text">If these statements were considered under their true aspect, they could lead science to new discoveries of which there is no idea at present and in comparison with which the present knowledge is poor.</p>
			<p class="body-text">According to the experience of ancient Yogis, sensible matter was made out of <a id="_idIndexMarker259"></a>five elements, Bhutani: Prithivi, Apas, Agni (Tejas), Vayu, Akasha.</p>
			<p class="body-text"><a id="_idIndexMarker260"></a>Agni is threefold:</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1</span>. Ordinary fire, Jada Agni,</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">2</span>. Electric fire, Vaidyuta Agni,</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">3</span>. Solar fire, Saura Agni.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Science has only entered upon the first and the second of these fires. The fact that the atom is like the solar system could lead it to the knowledge of the third.<span id="footnote-004-backlink"><a class="_idFootnoteLink _idGenColorInherit" href="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-142.xhtml#footnote-004">[2]</a></span></p>
			<p class="body-text">Beyond Agni is Vayu of which science knows nothing. It is the support of all contact and exchange, the cause of gravitation and of the fields (magnetic and electric). By it, the action of Agni, the formal element, the builder of forms, is made possible.</p>
			<p class="body-text">And beyond Vayu is the ether: Akasha.</p>
			<p class="body-text">But these five constitute only the grossest part of the physical plane. Immediately behind is the physical-vital, the element of life buried in matter. <a id="_idIndexMarker262"></a>J. C. Bose is contacting this element in his experiments. Beyond is the mind in matter. This mind has a far different form than the human mind, still it is a manifestation of the same principle of organisation. And deep below there are two more hidden layers….</p>
			<p class="body-text">That is the occult knowledge concerning the physical plane only. Science is far behind this knowledge.</p>
			<p class="body-text">The Hindu Yogis who had realised these truths did not elaborate them and turn them into scientific knowledge. Other fields of action and knowledge having been open before them, they neglected what for them was the most exterior aspect of the manifestation.</p>
			<p class="body-text">There is a difference between the scientific mind and the cast of mind of an occultist. There is little doubt that one who could unite these two groups of faculties would lead science towards great progress.” (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">66</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">67</span>)</p>
			<hr class="HorizontalRule-1" />
			<div class="_idFootnotes">
				<div id="footnote-005" class="_idFootnote" epub:type="footnote">
					<p class="footnote"><a class="_idFootnoteAnchor _idGenColorInherit" href="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-142.xhtml#footnote-005-backlink">[1]</a> According to Sri Aurobindo, this true <a id="_idIndexMarker251"></a>movement behind respiration is the same as the one governing electrical and magnetic fields; it is what the ancient yogis used to call Vayu, the Life-Energy. The breathing exercises (<a id="_idIndexMarker252"></a>prāṇāyāma) are simply one system (among others) for acquiring mastery over Vayu which eventually enables you to be free from gravitation and gives certain powers known to the ancients: the power to be extremely light or extremely heavy, very big or very tiny (<a id="_idIndexMarker253"></a>garimā, <a id="_idIndexMarker254"></a>laghimā, <a id="_idIndexMarker255"></a>mahimā, <a id="_idIndexMarker256"></a>aṇimā). As an appendix to this talk we publish an extract from a conversation of Sri Aurobindo with a French scientist-disciple, dealing with some of these “true movements” behind the external movement of Matter.</p>
				</div>
				<div id="footnote-004" class="_idFootnote" epub:type="footnote">
					<p class="footnote"><a class="_idFootnoteAnchor _idGenColorInherit" href="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-142.xhtml#footnote-004-backlink">[2]</a> It is remarkable to observe that since then (1926) we have indeed discovered a <a id="_idIndexMarker261"></a>third “fire”, that which accompanies nuclear reactions – and that this fire is in fact that of the sun, the enormous radiation of which is liberated in course of the fusion of hydrogen nuclei into helium (Bethe cycle). The first fire is that of chemical reactions wherein molecules get destroyed and reconstituted without the constituent atoms being changed. The second fire comes from the modifications of the peripheral levels of the electrons in the atom, modifications which are at the origin of all electro-magnetic phenomena.</p>
				</div>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
