<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-346</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-346" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-366" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor351"></a>The “Why” of This Kind of Material World</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“…this so-called “error” of the <a id="_idIndexMarker611"></a>material world as it is, was indispensable; that is to say, the material mode or way of perceiving, of becoming aware of things, was gained through the “error” of this creation and would not have existed without it, and it is not something that will vanish into non-existence when we gain the true consciousness – it is something that is added in a special way – which was perceived, lived at that moment in the essential Consciousness.</p>
			<p class="body-text">It was like a justification of the creation that has made possible a certain mode of perception – which might be described by the words “precision”, “exactness” in <a id="_idIndexMarker612"></a>objectivisation – which could not have existed without it. Because when this Consciousness – the perfect Consciousness, the true Consciousness, the Consciousness – was there, present and lived to the exclusion of any other, there was something like a mode of vibration, so to say, a mode of vibration with objective precision and exactness, which could not have existed without this material form of creation…. You see, there was always this great “Why?” – “Why is it like this?” Why is there all this, which brought about everything that the human consciousness interprets as suffering, misery and helplessness and everything, all the horrors of ordinary consciousness – why? Why is it? And so this was the answer: in the true Consciousness there is a mode of vibration, of precision and exactness and clarity in objectivisation, which could not have existed without that, which would not have had any opportunity to manifest. That is certain. That is the answer – the all-powerful answer to the “why”.</p>
			<p class="body-text">It is obvious – obvious – that what we experience as progress, as a progressive manifestation, is not simply a law of the material manifestation as we know it, but the very principle of the eternal Manifestation. To come down to the level of terrestrial thought, one might say that there is no manifestation without progress. But what we call progress, what is “progress” to our consciousness, up there it is… it can be anything, a necessity, whatever you like – there is a kind of absolute that we do not understand, an absolute of being: it is like that because it is like that, that is all. But for our consciousness it is more and more, better and better – and these words are stupid – it is more and more perfect, better and better perceived. That is the very principle of manifestation.</p>
			<p class="body-text">One experience came very fleetingly, but precisely enough to allow one to say, very clumsily, that – I was about to say the “flavour” of the Non-Manifest – the Non-Manifest has a special flavour because of the Manifest.</p>
			<p class="body-text">All this is just words, but that is all we have. Perhaps one day we shall have words or a language which can say these things properly; it is possible, but it will be always a translation.</p>
			<p class="body-text">There is a level here (pointing to the chest) where something plays with words, with images, with phrases, like this (shimmering, undulating gesture), that makes pretty pictures; it has a power of bringing you into contact with the Thing, which may be greater – at least as great, but perhaps greater – than here (pointing to the forehead), than the metaphysical expression – “metaphysical” is a manner of speaking. Images, that is to say, poetry. Here there is an almost more direct way of access to that inexpressible vibration. I see Sri Aurobindo’s expression in its poetic form, it has a charm and a simplicity – a simplicity and a sweetness and a penetrating charm – which brings you into direct contact much more intimately than all the things of the head.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">4</span> and <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">9</span> March <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1966</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">221</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">23</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
