<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-376</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-376" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-398" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor382"></a>The Why of Creation</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“I have as though the feeling that I know the <a id="_idIndexMarker639"></a>why of creation.</p>
			<p class="body-text">It was to realise the phenomenon of a consciousness which would have at the same time the individual consciousness – the individual consciousness that we naturally have – and the consciousness of the whole, the consciousness (how to say it?)… one might say “global”. But the two consciousnesses unite in something… which we have yet to find.</p>
			<p class="body-text">A consciousness at the same time individual and total. And all this labour is for the sake of uniting the two consciousnesses into one consciousness which is that at the same time. And that is the next realisation.</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">(Silence)</p>
			<p class="body-text">For us it seems to take time (it is translated for us by time), as though it is “being done”, as though something is “to be done”. But that is the illusion in which we are. Because we have not… crossed over to the other side.</p>
			<p class="body-text">But the individual consciousness is not at all a falsehood; it must be linked with the consciousness of the whole in such a way that it makes another consciousness which for the moment we do not yet possess. Not that it must abolish the other, you understand? There has to be an adjustment, a different aspect, I do not know… in which the two are manifested simultaneously.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">30</span> October <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1971</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">275</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
