<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-322</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-322" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-342" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor327"></a>The Utility of Misfortune</h2>
			<p class="MotherAphorism">“34 – O <a id="_idIndexMarker579"></a>Misfortune, blessed be thou; for through thee I have seen the face of my Lover.</p>
			<p class="question-Style">If through misfortune one sees the face of God, then it is no longer misfortune, is it?</p>
			<p class="body-text">Obviously, far from being a misfortune, it is a blessing. And this is precisely what Sri Aurobindo means.</p>
			<p class="body-text">When things happen which are not what we expect, what we hope for, what we want, which are contrary to our desires, in our ignorance we call them misfortunes and lament. But if we were to become a little wiser and observe the deeper consequences of these very same events, we would find that they are leading us rapidly towards the Divine, the Beloved; whereas easy and pleasant circumstances encourage us to dally on the path, to stop along the way to pluck the flowers of pleasure which present themselves to us and which we are too weak or not sincere enough to reject resolutely, so that our march forward is not delayed.</p>
			<p class="body-text">One must already be very strong, very far along the way, to be able to face success and the little enjoyments it brings without giving way. Those who can do this, those who are strong, do not run after success; they do not seek it, and accept it with indifference. For they know and appreciate the value of the lashes given by unhappiness and misfortune.</p>
			<p class="body-text">But ultimately the true attitude, the sign and proof that we are near the goal, is a perfect equality which enables us to accept success and failure, fortune and misfortune, happiness and sorrow with the same tranquil joy; for all these things become marvellous gifts that the Lord in his infinite solicitude showers upon us.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">25</span> May <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1960</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">58</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">59</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
