<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-349</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-349" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-369" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor354"></a>The Undesirability of Giving Opinions and Intervening in Other People’s Affairs</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“…to intervene you must be sure that you are right; you must be sure that your vision of things is superior, preferable or truer than the vision of the other person or people. Then it is always wiser not to intervene – people intervene without rhyme or reason, simply because they are in the habit of giving their opinion to others.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Even when you have the vision of the true thing, it is very rarely wise to intervene. It only becomes indispensable when someone wants to do something which will necessarily lead to a catastrophe. Even then, intervention (smiling) is not always very effective.</p>
			<p class="body-text">In fact, intervention is justified only when you are absolutely sure that you have the vision of truth. Not only that, but also a clear vision of the consequences. To intervene in someone else’s actions, one must be a prophet – a prophet. And a prophet with total goodness and compassion. One must even have the vision of the consequences that the intervention will have in the destiny of the other person. People are always giving each other advice: “Do this, don’t do that.” I see it: they have no idea how much confusion they create, how they increase confusion and disorder. And sometimes they impair the normal development of the individual. </p>
			<p class="body-text">I consider that opinions are always dangerous and most often absolutely worthless.</p>
			<p class="body-text">You should not meddle with other people’s affairs, unless first of all you are infinitely wiser than they are – of course, one always thinks that one is wiser! – but I mean in an objective way and not according to your own opinion; unless you see further and better and are yourself above all passions, desires and blind reactions. You must be above all these things yourself to have the right to intervene in someone else’s life – even when he asks you to do so. And when he does not, it is simply meddling with something which is not your business.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">14</span> September <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1966</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">235</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">36</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
