<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-160</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-160" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-170" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor165"></a><a id="_idIndexMarker296"></a>Foreknowledge of Future Events and One’s Ability to Intervene</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“That depends upon the nature of the event. There are many things…. That depends also upon the level from which one sees. There is a plane where there are all the possibilities, and on that level, as there are all the possibilities, there is the possibility also of changing these possibilities. If a catastrophe is foreseen in that plane, one can have the power of preventing it also. In other cases, even though one is forewarned, one has no action upon the event. And yet there, it depends on the level from where one sees.</p>
			<p class="body-text">A case of this kind was reported to me once where the very seeing of a thing prevented it from happening. An American gentleman had arrived at one of those big American hotels where there are lifts (you do not go down a staircase, you take a lift to go up or come down); now, early in the morning just before getting up, he had a dream which he remembered well: he had seen a boy dressed as a lift-boy and making the same movement a lift-boy makes directing you to get in. He was there. And then, at the end of the movement, instead of a lift, there was a hearse! – that is to say, that kind of carriage… oh! you must have seen some here now and then, to carry the dead to the cemetery; when they are not burnt, they are carried on a bier with black draperies, etc. So there was such a carriage, a hearse for carrying the dead. And the boy was signing to him to get into the carriage. When he came out of his room, the boy was there with the lift to take him down: exactly the same boy, the same face, the same dress, the same gesture. He remembered the hearse – he did not get into the lift. He said: “No, no!” and he walked down. And before he reached the ground floor, he heard a terrible noise and the lift had crashed down to the ground and all who were in it were killed. It was because of the dream that he had not got in, for he had understood.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Therefore in such a case when you have the vision, you can avert the catastrophe.</p>
			<p class="body-text">There are other cases, as I said, when you are simply <a id="_idIndexMarker297"></a>forewarned. You are forewarned. In reality, it is to help you to prepare within for what must come, so that you may take the right inner attitude to face the event. It is like a lesson telling you: “This is what it must teach you.” You cannot change the thing, but you can change your attitude and your inner reaction. Instead of having a bad reaction, a wrong attitude towards the experience that occurs, you have a good reaction, a good attitude, and you derive as much benefit as possible out of what has happened.</p>
			<p class="body-text">In either case, it depends absolutely on the plane on which you see. When you have control over your nights and are conscious of your <a id="_idIndexMarker298"></a>sleep and your dreams or of your visions, you also see the difference between the two; you can distinguish the difference: what is given to you as a warning so that you may intervene and what is given to you as an intimation so that you may take the right attitude towards what is going to happen. It is always a lesson, but it is not always the same lesson. At times you can act with your will; at times you must learn the inner lesson which the incident is about to give you so that you may be ready for the event to have a fully favourable consequence. The same thing holds for everything that you see, there are hundreds of different varieties of visions and dreams and each one brings you the lesson it has to bring.</p>
			<p class="body-text">For example, when people are taken ill or when they are caught in an accident. Well, whether I see it myself or come to know of it from outside through someone’s telling me about it – in every case it is not the same. There are cases when I am informed and I see that it is for <a id="_idIndexMarker299"></a>intervening and I have the full power to change the consequence, that is, to cure the sick person. There are cases where I see I am not to intervene. For instance, it is time for the person to leave his body: he will leave the body. But knowing this, I must do for the person and for those around him what has to be done for the event to have the maximum beneficial effect or the minimum adverse effect – it depends on the circumstances.</p>
			<p class="body-text">There are events appertaining to a universal necessity and those one cannot change. There are events still in the balance which can be decided either way. The whole thing is to have a perception that’s not only clear-sighted but also quite impartial and impersonal, without even the shadow of a shadow of preference. Then, when one is in that perfect state – it can’t be said, of neutrality, it is not neutrality: it is a state of consciousness which is immobile like a mirror – then one can see within it the quality of the thing that’s happening, one can see the things that have been decided so that they cannot be altered and those that are still in the balance and can be changed.</p>
			<p class="body-text">To tell the truth, for each event the situation is different. There are some that can be changed completely, reversed altogether; there are some that are capable of undergoing quite a considerable change; there are others that can suffer only a slight modification – a slight modification but one that has a considerable consequence; and there are some that are inevitable; they are so because they are so; if you tried to oppose, you would break your head against a wall and that would serve no purpose. The whole thing is to have this perspicacity, know to which domain the event belongs and not will any other thing than what must be.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">29</span> July <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1953</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">188</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">91</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
