<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-102</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-102" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-110" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor109"></a>The Difference between the “<a id="_idIndexMarker177"></a>Spiritual” and the “<a id="_idIndexMarker178"></a>Psychic”?</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“It is not the same thing. The psychic is the being organised by the divine Presence and it belongs to the earth – I am not speaking of the universe, only of the earth; it is only upon earth that you will find the psychic being. The rest of the universe is formed in quite a different way.</p>
			<p class="body-text">The universe contains all the domains higher than the physical: there is a global physical comprising the mental, the vital, etc., and all the domains above the mental are domains of a spiritual order, domains which are, for us, domains of the spirit, and it is this “spirit” which little by little, progressively, materialises itself to arrive at Matter as we conceive it. The beings of the Overmind, for instance, and all the beings of the higher regions have no psychic being – the “angels” have no psychic being. It is only upon earth that the psychic life begins, and it is just the process by which the Divine has awakened material life to the necessity of rejoining its divine origin. Without the psychic, Matter would never have awakened from its inconscience, it would never have aspired for the life of its origin, the spiritual life. Therefore, the psychic being in the human being is the manifestation of spiritual aspiration; but there is a spiritual life independent of the psychic.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1</span> March <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1951</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">164</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">65</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
