<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-300</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-300" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-318" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor303"></a>Extreme Human Perversion and the <a id="_idIndexMarker540"></a>Supramental: The <a id="_idIndexMarker541"></a>Mother’s Experience of a Rich <a id="_idIndexMarker542"></a>Fat Lady</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“A group of visitors had asked permission to come to me and one evening they came to the Playground. They were rich people, that is, they had more money than they needed to live on. Among them there was a woman in a sari; she was very fat, her sari was arranged so as to hide her body. As she was bending down to receive my blessings, one corner of the sari came open, uncovering a part of her body, a naked belly – an enormous one. I felt a real shock…. There are corpulent people who have nothing repugnant about them, but I suddenly saw the perversion, the rottenness that this belly concealed, it was like a huge abscess, expressing greed, vice, depraved taste, sordid desire, which finds its satisfaction as no animal would, in grossness and especially in perversity. I saw the perversion of a depraved mind at the service of the lowest appetites. Then, all of a sudden, something sprang up from me, a prayer, like a Veda: “O Lord, this is what must disappear!”</p>
			<p class="body-text">One understands very well that physical misery, the unequal distribution of the goods of this world could be changed, one can imagine economic and social solutions which could remedy this, but it is that misery, the mental misery, the vital perversion, it is that which cannot change, doesn’t want to change. And those who belong to this type of humanity are condemned in advance to disintegration.</p>
			<p class="body-text">That is the meaning of <a id="_idIndexMarker543"></a>original sin: the perversion which began with the mind.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">19</span> March <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1958</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">299</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">300</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
