<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-92</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-92" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-100" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor099"></a><a id="_idIndexMarker152"></a>Sleep and Self-Control of One’s Nature</h2>
			<p class="question-Style">“More than a third of our existence is passed in sleep....”</p>
			<p class="question-Style">“On Dreams”, Words of Long Ago</p>
			<p class="body-text">Physical sleep therefore well deserves our attention. I said “physical sleep”, for we are inclined to believe that the whole of our being goes to sleep when the body is asleep.</p>
			<p class="question-Style">“It is often said that in sleep men’s true nature is revealed.”</p>
			<p class="question-Style">Ibid.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Their true nature does not mean their deeper nature but their spontaneous nature which is not under control, for the control of the will ceases during sleep. And all that one does not do in the waking state, one does during sleep because the control of the will is removed.</p>
			<p class="question-Style">“All the desires that have been repressed without being dissolved ... try to seek satisfaction while the will is asleep.</p>
			<p class="question-Style">“And as desires are veritable dynamic centres of formation, they tend to organise in and around us an assemblage of circumstances most favourable to their satisfaction.”</p>
			<p class="question-Style">Ibid.</p>
			<p class="body-text">In another lesson we spoke of the <a id="_idIndexMarker153"></a>power of mental formation: the mind shapes entities which have a more or less independent life and try to manifest themselves. Here I do not speak of thought but of desire. <a id="_idIndexMarker154"></a>Desire belongs to the vital domain but at the core of this desire there is always a thought, and the desire becomes all the more active and dynamic when it holds in itself this power of mental formation and the power of vital realisation. The vital is the centre of dynamism of the being, of active energy, and the two combined make something very strong which has a considerable tendency towards realising itself. Besides, everything in the universe tends towards manifestation, and things which are prevented from manifesting lose, by that very fact, their force and capacity. Most of the methods aiming at self-control have indeed made use of <a id="_idIndexMarker155"></a>repression, of the <a id="_idIndexMarker156"></a>suppression of movements with the idea that if one continues this suppression long enough, one succeeds in killing the element that is not wanted. This would be quite true if it were a question only of the physical world, but behind the physical world there is the subconscious world and behind the subconscious world there lies the immensity of the Inconscient. And what you do not know is this that unless you destroy within you the desire itself, that is, the seed of the formation, this formation which you are preventing from manifesting is so to say repressed in the subconscient – driven down and repressed right at the bottom – and if you go and search in the subconscient you will find that it is waiting there to do its work. That is why so many people who have for years and years been able to control an unwanted movement are suddenly taken by surprise when this movement rushes up from below with all the greater force the longer it has been repressed. Hence dreams are of great use because this movement of repression exists no longer, the conscious will not being there (for it falls asleep or goes elsewhere) and the desire repressed below leaps up and manifests itself in the form of dreams, so much so that you come to know a good many things about your own nature; that is why it is said that man can discover in sleep and dreams his true nature; it is not his true nature, his deeper nature, which is his psychic nature, but the spontaneous, uncontrolled nature.</p>
			<p class="question-Style">“Thus is destroyed in a few hours of the night the fruit of many efforts made by our conscious thought during the day....”</p>
			<p class="question-Style">“On Dreams”, Words of Long Ago”</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">27</span> January <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1951</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">58</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">60</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
