<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-257</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-257" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-273" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor259"></a>People with <a id="_idIndexMarker472"></a>Powers</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“There are some who have great powers. But these powers come from the vital and from an association with vital entities.</p>
			<p class="body-text">There are all kinds of powers. Only, those powers don’t hold out before the true divine Power – they can’t resist. But over ordinary human beings they have much power.</p>
			<p class="question-Style">Then, they can do harm?</p>
			<p class="body-text">Much. Not only they can, they do it. They do a lot of harm. The number of people who are tormented because they had the misfortune of meeting a so-called sannyasin,<span id="footnote-010-backlink"><a class="_idFootnoteLink _idGenColorInherit" href="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-257.xhtml#footnote-010">[1]</a></span> is considerable, considerable. I am not telling you this to frighten you, because here you are protected, but it is a fact. While receiving initiation these men have received the imposition of a force from the vital world, which is extremely dangerous…. This is not always the case, but most often this is what happens.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Because <a id="_idIndexMarker473"></a>sincerity is so rare a virtue in the world, one ought to bow down before it with respect when one meets it. Sincerity – what we call sincerity, that is to say, a perfect honesty and transparency: that there may be nowhere in the being anything which pretends, hides or wants to pass itself off for what it is not.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">22</span> February <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1956</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">73</span>)</p>
			<hr class="HorizontalRule-1" />
			<div class="_idFootnotes">
				<div id="footnote-010" class="_idFootnote" epub:type="footnote">
					<p class="footnote"><a class="_idFootnoteAnchor _idGenColorInherit" href="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-257.xhtml#footnote-010-backlink">[1]</a> Later the Mother added the following commentary: “Of course, this refers only to those who put on the orange robe with the sole purpose of hiding their egoistic passions behind the veil of a dress which is generally respected. There can be no question about those who have a pure heart and whose dress is simply the outer sign of their integral consecration to the spiritual life.”</p>
				</div>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
