<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-276</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-276" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-292" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor277"></a>Essential <a id="_idIndexMarker493"></a>Quality of Teachers and Teaching a Way of Disciplining Oneself</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“Teachers who are not perfectly calm, who do not have an endurance that never fails, and a quietude which nothing can disturb, who have no self-respect – those who are like that will get nowhere. One must be a saint and a hero to be a good teacher. One must be a great yogi to be a good teacher. One must have a perfect attitude to be able to exact a perfect attitude from the students. You cannot ask anyone to do what you don’t do yourself. That is a rule. So look at the difference between what is and what ought to be, and you will be able to estimate the extent of your failure in class.</p>
			<p class="body-text">That is all I can offer you.</p>
			<p class="body-text">And I may add, since there’s the occasion for it: we ask many students here when they grow up and know something, to teach others. There are some, I believe, who understand why; but there are also others who think it is because it is good to serve in some way or other and that teachers are needed and we are happy to have them. But I tell you – for it is a fact – that I have never asked anyone educated here to give lessons without seeing that this would be for him the best way of disciplining himself, of learning better what he is to teach and of reaching an inner perfection he would never have if he were not a teacher and had not this opportunity of disciplining himself, which is exceptionally severe. Those who succeed as teachers here – I don’t mean an outer, artificial and superficial success, but being truly good teachers – this means that they are capable of making an inner progress of impersonalisation, of eliminating their egoism, controlling their movements, capable of a clear-sightedness, an understanding of others and a never-failing patience.</p>
			<p class="body-text">If you go through that discipline and succeed, well, you have not wasted your time here.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">14</span> November <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1956</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">353</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">54</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
