<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-527</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-527" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-555" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor539"></a><a id="_idIndexMarker739"></a>Difficulties</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“The difficulties are always due to a resistance, some part or several parts of the being refusing to receive the force, the consciousness and the light put upon them and revolting against the divine influence. It is rare that somebody can surrender entirely to the Divine’s Will without having to face one or another of these difficulties. But to keep steady one’s aspiration and to look at oneself with an absolute sincerity are the sure means to overcome all obstacles.” (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">218</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“Shocks and trials always come as a divine grace to show us the points in our being where we fall short and the movements in which we turn our back on our soul by listening to the clamour of our mental being and vital being.</p>
			<p class="body-text">If we know how to accept these spiritual blows with due humility, we are sure to cover a great distance at a single bound.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">22</span> February <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1965</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">219</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“Be absolutely convinced that everything that happens, happens in order to give us precisely the lesson we needed, and if we are sincere in the “sadhana”, the lesson should be accepted with joy and gratitude.</p>
			<p class="body-text">For one who aspires to the divine life, what can the actions of a blind and ignorant humanity matter to him?” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">18</span> January <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1967</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">219</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“He who wants to advance on the path of perfection must never complain about the difficulties on the way, for each is an opportunity for a new progress. To complain is a sign of weakness and <a id="_idIndexMarker740"></a>insincerity.” (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">221</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“If you are not satisfied with what you are, take advantage of the Divine’s help and change yourself. If you haven’t the courage to change, submit to your destiny and keep quiet.</p>
			<p class="body-text">But to constantly complain about the condition you are in, without doing anything to change it, is a waste of your time and energy.</p>
			<p class="body-text">The difficulties can disappear only when the egoistic concentration upon desires and conveniences disappears.” <br /><span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">12</span> March <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1958</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">222</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“Never worry.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Do with sincerity all you do and leave the results to the Divine’s care.” (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">222</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“Don’t foresee difficulties – it does not help to surmount them and helps them to come.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">5</span> August <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1932</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">223</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“We must always keep in mind the big ideal and work that is to be achieved so that we should not give too much importance to small details, trifles that must not draw our attention; let them come, let them go like small clouds in the sky, which do not affect the fine weather.” (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">224</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“Be grateful for all ordeals, they are the shortest way to the Divine.” (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">225</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“Look life in the face from the soul’s inner strength and become master of circumstances.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">19</span> September <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1956</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">230</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“Our ordeals never exceed our capacity of resistance.” (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">231</span>)</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">“To live within, in constant aspiration towards the Divine – that renders us capable of regarding life with a smile and remaining in peace whatever the external circumstances.” (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">232</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
