<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-386</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-386" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-410" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor394"></a><a id="_idIndexMarker656"></a>Mental Education*</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“Of all lines of education, mental education is the most widely known and practised, yet except in a few rare cases there are gaps which make it something very incomplete and in the end quite insufficient.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Generally speaking, schooling is considered to be all the mental education that is necessary. And when a child has been made to undergo, for a number of years, a methodical training which is more like cramming than true schooling, it is considered that whatever is necessary for his mental development has been done. Nothing of the kind. Even conceding that the training is given with due measure and discrimination and does not permanently damage the brain, it cannot impart to the human mind the faculties it needs to become a good and useful instrument. The schooling that is usually given can, at the most, serve as a system of gymnastics to increase the suppleness of the brain. From this standpoint, each branch of human learning represents a special kind of mental gymnastics, and the verbal formulations given to these various branches each constitute a special and well-defined language.</p>
			<p class="body-text">A true mental education, which will prepare man for a higher life, has five principal phases. Normally these phases follow one after another, but in exceptional individuals they may alternate or even proceed simultaneously. These five phases, in brief, are:</p>
			<p class="body-text">(<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1</span>) Development of the power of concentration, the capacity of attention.</p>
			<p class="body-text">(<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">2</span>) Development of the capacities of expansion, widening, complexity and richness.</p>
			<p class="body-text">(<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">3</span>) Organisation of one’s ideas around a central idea, a higher ideal or a supremely luminous idea that will serve as a guide in life. </p>
			<p class="body-text">(<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">4</span>) Thought-control, rejection of undesirable thoughts, to become able to think only what one wants and when one wants.</p>
			<p class="body-text">(<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">5</span>) Development of mental silence, perfect calm and a more and more total receptivity to inspirations coming from the higher regions of the being.</p>
			<p class="body-text">It is not possible to give here all the details concerning the methods to be employed in the application of these five phases of education to different individuals. Still, a few explanations on points of detail can be given.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Undeniably, what most impedes mental progress in children is the constant dispersion of their thoughts. Their thoughts flutter hither and thither like butterflies and they have to make a great effort to fix them. Yet this capacity is latent in them, for when you succeed in arousing their interest, they are capable of a good deal of attention. By his ingenuity, therefore, the educator will gradually help the child to become capable of a sustained effort of attention and a faculty of more and more complete absorption in the work in hand. All methods that can develop this faculty of attention from games to rewards are good and can all be utilised according to the need and the circumstances. But it is the psychological action that is most important and the sovereign method is to arouse in the child an interest in what you want to teach him, a liking for work, a will to progress. To love to learn is the most precious gift that one can give to a child: to love to learn always and everywhere, so that all circumstances, all happenings in life may be constantly renewed opportunities for learning more and always more.</p>
			<p class="body-text">For that, to attention and concentration should be added observation, precise recording and faithfulness of memory. This faculty of observation can be developed by varied and spontaneous exercises, making use of every opportunity that presents itself to keep the child’s thought wakeful, alert and prompt. The growth of the understanding should be stressed much more than that of memory. One knows well only what one has understood. Things learnt by heart, mechanically, fade away little by little&#160;and finally disappear; what is understood is never forgotten. Moreover, you must never refuse to explain to a child the how and the why of things. If you cannot do it yourself, you must direct the child to those who are qualified to answer or point out to him some books that deal with the question. In this way you will progressively awaken in the child the taste for true study and the habit of making a persistent effort to know.” Bulletin, November <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1951</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">24</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">26</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
