<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-176</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-176" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-186" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idIndexMarker329"></a>Suggestions of Fear</h2>
			<p class="question-Style">“When one takes up a human body, is it necessary to accept suggestions of fear? </p>
			<p class="body-text">It seems more inevitable than necessary!... One doesn’t even perceive that one is accepting them. We said the other day that when a psychic being enters a body, it is as though it fell on its head – it is a little stunned for a time. So during this period it is under the influence of these suggestions without even knowing it. But as soon as it wakes up, it can come out of that; it is not at all necessary to accept them. Only, one must know that they are suggestions. One must be able to separate oneself from the purely human consciousness, the body consciousness. And once you can look at it from above, you can free yourself from these suggestions quite well. You can free yourself from all suggestions, but for that you must rise above them. If that were not possible, it would be impossible to do yoga. </p>
			<p class="body-text">But you do not become aware of it, it is a constant thing. For example, there is that formidable collective suggestion of death. But how can you get rid of that idea unless you are able to create in you an immortal consciousness? Once you have created in you the immortal consciousness, you can be freed of the suggestion. Otherwise it is not possible. And you are not aware of it because you live in it quite normally – you are full of the movements and ideas belonging to the human race, which are not personal to you at all. You are not aware of them because they are very intimately bound up with your consciousness. But the moment you can free yourself from this human consciousness and enter a domain where, for example, life in the body becomes almost an accident – it can be here, it can be there, it can be over there – you are no longer tied to the body. You look at it and say: it is almost like an accident (it may be a choice also, but most often it is an accident). Then, from that moment you are no longer tied down, for you are conscious in a being which is no longer merely, exclusively human. But till that moment you are not even aware. You have no means of becoming aware. And if you come to the purely mental domain, there are such strong ideas; for example, that the infinite cannot be within the finite, that what begins will surely have an end – ideas of this kind which seem wonderfully luminous, and yet are idiocies. But all that belongs to the collective human mentality and there is nothing more difficult than to drive this out of the head of people who think themselves very clever.... Perhaps you have not yet put these problems to yourselves because you have not yet begun studying philosophy, but when you begin, you will see. And this will be given to you as immortal truths which cannot be touched! Yet this is nonsense. One day I would like... (turning to Nolini) You don’t have the Advent here? It is in the Advent, that text of Sri Aurobindo’s. One day we shall translate it together from English into French. He has made a wonderful observation upon logic and reason<span id="footnote-006-backlink"><a class="_idFootnoteLink _idGenColorInherit" href="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-176.xhtml#footnote-006">[3]</a></span>... And all that never even crossed your mind: that these are collective suggestions and one must come out of them. Not only does it not appear to you as slavery, but it appears to you as an illumination. Well, it’s not that at all!” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">14</span> October <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1953</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">312</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">14</span>) </p>
			<hr class="HorizontalRule-1" />
			<div class="_idFootnotes">
				<div id="footnote-006" class="_idFootnote" epub:type="footnote">
					<p class="footnote"><a class="_idFootnoteAnchor _idGenColorInherit" href="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-176.xhtml#footnote-006-backlink">[3]</a> Perhaps the reference is to the following Aphorism of Sri Aurobindo quoted in the Advent of August 1953:</p>
					<p class="footnote">“Logic is the worst enemy of Truth, as self-righteousness is the worst enemy of virtue; for the one cannot see its own errors nor the other its own imperfections.” Thoughts and Aphorisms (CWSA12, 428)</p>
				</div>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
