<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-79</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-79" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-85" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor084"></a>Spontaneous Tendency to Choose Wrong Ideas and Company</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“The world has been so made – at least up to now, let us hope that it will not be so for much longer – that, spontaneously, a man who is not cultured, when he is brought into contact with ideas, always <a id="_idIndexMarker131"></a>chooses wrong ideas.</p>
			<p class="body-text">And a child who is not educated always chooses bad company. It is a thing I experience constantly and concretely. If you keep a child in a special atmosphere and if, from a very early age, you instill in him a special atmosphere, a special purity, he has a chance of not making a wrong choice. But a child who is taken from the world as it is and is placed in a society where there are good and bad elements will go straight to those who can spoil him, teach him wrong things, that is to say, towards the worst company.</p>
			<p class="body-text">A man who has no intellectual culture, if you give him some mixed ideas, just at random, to choose from, he will always choose the stupid ones; because, as Sri Aurobindo has told us, this is a <a id="_idIndexMarker132"></a>world of falsehood, of ignorance and an effort is needed, an aspiration; one must come in contact with one’s inmost being – a conscious and luminous contact – if one is to distinguish the true from the false, the good influence from the bad. If you let yourself go, you sink into a hole.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Things are like that because what rules the world – oh! let us put it in the past tense, so that it becomes true – what ruled the world was falsehood and ignorance.</p>
			<p class="body-text">In fact, for the moment, it is still like that; one should have no illusions about it. But perhaps with a great effort and great vigilance we shall be able to make it otherwise… soon – the “perhaps” is for “soon”...” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">9</span> May <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1958</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">244</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">45</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
