<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-27</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWM_-_CopyFinal_copy-27" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-31" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idTextAnchor030"></a>How Is It to Be Done</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“The terrestrial transformation and harmonisation can be brought about by two processes which, though opposite in appearance, must combine – must act upon each other and complete each other:</p>
			<p class="body-text">(<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1</span>) Individual transformation, an inner development leading to the union with the Divine Presence.</p>
			<p class="body-text">(<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">2</span>) Social transformation, the establishment of an environment favourable to the flowering and growth of the individual.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Since the environment reacts upon the individual and, on the other hand, the value of the environment depends upon the value of the individual, the two works should proceed side by side. But this can be done only through division of labour, and that necessitates the formation of a group, hierarchised, if possible.</p>
			<p class="body-text">The action of the members of the group should be threefold:</p>
			<p class="body-text">(<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1</span>) To realise in oneself the ideal to be attained: to become a perfect earthly representative of the first manifestation of the Unthinkable in all its modes, attributes and qualities.</p>
			<p class="body-text">(<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">2</span>) To preach this ideal by word, but, above all, by example, so as to find out all those who are ready to realise it in their turn and to become also announcers of liberation.</p>
			<p class="body-text">(<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">3</span>) To found a typic society or reorganise those that already exist.</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">***</p>
			<p class="body-text">For each individual also there is a twofold labour to be done, simultaneously, each side of it helping and completing the other:</p>
			<p class="body-text">(<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1</span>) An inner development, a progressive union with the Divine Light, sole condition in which man can be always in harmony with the great stream of universal life.</p>
			<p class="body-text">(<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">2</span>) An external action which everyone has to choose according to his capacities and personal preferences. He must find his own place, the place which he alone can occupy in the general concert, and he must give himself entirely to it, not forgetting that he is playing only one note in the terrestrial symphony and yet his note is indispensable to the harmony of the whole, and its value depends upon its justness.” <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">7</span> May <span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">1912</span> (<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">49</span>-<span class="Character-Style-1 _idGenCharOverride-1">50</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
