<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_1_(withoutred)_-_Finalforpress-5</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_1_-withoutred-_-_Finalforpress-5" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-6" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idIndexMarker008"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Beauty</span></h2>
			<p class="body-text">“...beauty is that which fills us with a sense of satisfying pleasure and perfect fitness?” (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">25</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text">“... in what lies the beauty of a rose if not in its symmetry? Why has the whole effect that satisfying completeness which subjugates the senses, if not because Nature has blended in harmonious proportion the three elements of beauty; colour, perfume, and form? Now beauty may exist separately in any two of these elements and where it does so, the accession of the third would probably mar the perfection of that species of beauty; as in sculpture where form in its separate existence finds a complete expression and is blended harmoniously with <a id="_idIndexMarker009"></a><span class="Index-Entry">perfume</span> – for character or emotion is the <a id="_idIndexMarker010"></a><span class="Index-Entry">perfume</span> of the <a id="_idIndexMarker011"></a><span class="Index-Entry">human form</span>; just as sound is the perfume of poetry and music – but if a sculptor tints his statue, the effect displeases us, because it seems gaudy or tinsel, or in plain words disproportionate.</p>
			<p class="body-text">In some cases beauty seems to have only one of these elements, for example frankincense and music which seem to possess perfume only, but in reality we shall find that they have each one or both of the other elements. For incense would not be half so beautiful, if we did not see the curling folds of smoke floating like loose drapery in the air, nor would music be music if not harmoniously blended with form and colour, or as we usually call them, technique and meaning.” (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">25</span>-<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">26</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text">“... I will now select the most perfect: and that, I think, is a perfect poem. Would you not agree with me?</p>
			<p class="body-text">Wilson – No, I should give the palm to a perfectly beautiful face.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Keshav – I think you are wrong.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Wilson – Have you any reason for thinking so?</p>
			<p class="body-text">Keshav – Yes, and to me a very satisfying reason. The three elements of beauty do not blend with absolutely perfect harmony in a <a id="_idIndexMarker012"></a><span class="Index-Entry">human face</span>. Have you not frequently noticed that those faces which express the most soul, the most genius, the most character, are not perfectly harmonious in their form?</p>
			<p class="body-text">Wilson – Yes, the exceptions are rare.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Keshav – And the reason is that to emphasize the character, the divine artist has found himself compelled to emphasize certain of the features above the others, for instance, the lips, the eyes, the forehead, the chin, and to give them an undue prominence which destroys that proportion without which there can be no perfect harmony. Do you perceive my meaning?</p>
			<p class="body-text">Wilson – Yes, and I do not think your conclusions can be disputed.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Keshav – In a perfectly beautiful face the emotion has to be modified and discouraged, so as not to disturb the harmony of form: but in a perfectly beautiful poem the maker has indeed to blend with exquisite nicety the three elements of beauty, but though the colour may be gorgeous, the emotion piercingly vivid, the form deliriously lovely, yet each of these has so just a share of the effect, that we should find it difficult to add to or to detract from any one of them without fatally injuring the perfection of the whole.</p>
			<p class="body-text">And so it is with every form of beauty that is not originally imperfect; to detract or add would be alike fatal; for alteration means abolition. Each syllable is a key-stone and being removed, the whole imposing structure crumbles in a moment to the ground.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Can we better describe this perfect blending of parts than by the word proportion? or is its entire effect anything but harmony?” (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">27</span>-<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">28</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
