<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_1_(withoutred)_-_Finalforpress-198</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_1_-withoutred-_-_Finalforpress-198" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-208" class="SubHead1">The Key Conceptions of the <a id="_idIndexMarker1035"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Vedic Rishis</span></h2>
			<p class="body-text"><a id="_idTextAnchor048"></a>“The human individual is an organised unit of existence which reflects the constitution of the universe. It repeats in itself the same arrangement of states and play of forces. Man, subjectively, contains in himself all the worlds in which, objectively, he is contained. Preferring ordinarily a concrete to an abstract language, the Rishis speak of the physical consciousness as the physical world, earth, Bhu, Prithivi. They describe the pure mental consciousness as heaven, Dyaus, of which Swar, the luminous mind, is the summit. To the intermediate dynamic, vital or nervous consciousness they give the name either of Antariksha, the intermediate vision, or of Bhuvar, – multiple dynamic worlds formative of the Earth. </p>
			<p class="body-text"><a id="_idTextAnchor049"></a>For in the idea of the Rishis a world is primarily a formation of consciousness and only secondarily a physical formation of things. A world is a <a id="_idIndexMarker1036"></a><span class="Index-Entry">loka</span>, a way in which conscious being images itself. And it is the causal Truth, represented in the person of <a id="_idIndexMarker1037"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Surya Savitri</span>, that is the creator of all its forms. For it is the <a id="_idIndexMarker1038"></a><span class="Index-Entry">causal Idea</span> in the infinite being, – the idea, not abstract, but real and dynamic, – that originates the law, the energies, the formations of things and the working out of their potentialities in determined forms by determined processes. Because the causal Idea is a real force of existence, it is called Satyam, the True in being; because it is the determining truth of all activity and formation, it is called <a id="_idIndexMarker1039"></a>Ritam, the True in movement; because it is broad and infinite in its self-view, in its scope and in its operation, it is called <a id="_idIndexMarker1040"></a>Brihat, the Large or Vast.</p>
			<p class="body-text"><a id="_idIndexMarker1041"></a><span class="Index-Entry"><a id="_idTextAnchor050"></a>Savitri</span> by the Truth is the Creator, but not in the sense of a fabrication or mechanical forming of things. The root of the word means an impulsion, a loosing forth or sending out, – the sense also of the ordinary word for creation, <a id="_idIndexMarker1042"></a><span class="Index-Entry">s</span><span class="Index-Entry">ṛṣṭ</span><span class="Index-Entry">i</span>, – and so a production. The action of the causal Idea does not fabricate, but brings out by Tapas, by the pressure of consciousness on its own being, that which is concealed in it, latent in potentiality and in truth already existent in the Beyond.</p>
			<p class="body-text"><a id="_idTextAnchor051"></a>Now the forces and processes of the physical world repeat, as in a symbol, the truths of the supraphysical action which produced it. And since it is by the same forces and the same processes, one in the physical worlds and the supraphysical, that our inner life and its development are governed, the Rishis adopted the phenomena of physical Nature as just symbols for those functionings of the inner life which it was their difficult task to indicate in the concrete language of a sacred poetry that must at the same time serve for the external worship of the Gods as powers of the visible universe. The solar energy is the physical form of Surya, Lord of Light and Truth; it is through the Truth that we arrive at Immortality, final aim of the <a id="_idIndexMarker1043"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Vedic discipline</span>. It is therefore under the images of the Sun and its rays, of Dawn and day and night and the life of man between the two poles of light and darkness that the Aryan seers represent the progressive illumination of the human soul.” (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">288</span>-<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">89</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
