<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_1_(withoutred)_-_Finalforpress-112</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_1_-withoutred-_-_Finalforpress-112" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-118" class="SubHead1">Record of Yoga, 18.10.1912 – Sri <a id="_idIndexMarker540"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Ramakrishna</span></h2>
			<p class="body-text">“The first message was in Baroda, the “Arabindo, mandir karo, mandir karo”, &amp; the parable of the snake Pravritti devouring herself. The second was given in Shankar Chetti’s house soon after the arrival in Pondicherry, &amp; the words are lost, but it was a direction to form the higher being in the lower self coupled with a promise to speak once more when the sadhan was nearing its close. This is the third message (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">18</span> Oct <span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">1912</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text">“Make complete sannyasa of Karma.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Make complete sannyasa of thought.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Make complete sannyasa of feeling.</p>
			<p class="body-text">This is my last utterance.”</p>
			<p class="body-text">Subsequently there have been several instructions from the guiding Source, which seemed at the time to be not at all or only momentarily fulfilled.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Oct. <span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">18</span>. To believe everything, but put it in its place</p>
			<p class="body-text">To will everything, but wait the event and see where the will has stumbled.</p>
			<p class="body-text">To see everything but force no drishti.</p>
			<p class="body-text">[In this trio the first is now being perfectly carried out and is resulting in a perfect trikaldrishti, perfect in the sense that every wrong suggestion is being corrected &amp; put in its place either as a premature or misapplied truth or an ineffective or otherwise &amp; otherwhere effective use of will. The second, beginning to be perfectly fulfilled, will lead to perfect effectiveness of the will. The third is being prepared for perfect fulfilment &amp; will lead to perfect drishti].<span id="footnote-001-backlink"><a class="_idFootnoteLink _idGenColorInherit" href="CWSA_1_(withoutred)_-_Finalforpress-112.xhtml#footnote-001">[2]</a></span>” (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">128</span>-<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">29</span>)</p>
			<hr class="HorizontalRule-1" />
			<div class="_idFootnotes">
				<div id="footnote-001" class="_idFootnote" epub:type="footnote">
					<p class="footnote"><a class="_idFootnoteAnchor _idGenColorInherit" href="CWSA_1_(withoutred)_-_Finalforpress-112.xhtml#footnote-001-backlink">[2]</a> The square brackets are Sri Aurobindo’s. Ed.</p>
				</div>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
