<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_1_(withoutred)_-_Finalforpress-258</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_1_-withoutred-_-_Finalforpress-258" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-272" class="SubHead1">The Supreme Word of the Gita</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“To make it perfectly and indisputably clear that this is the supreme and entire truth of his teaching, this the integral knowledge which he had promised to reveal, the divine Avatar declares, in a brief reiteration of the upshot of all that he has been saying, that this and no other is his supreme word, paramaṁ vacaḥ. “Again hearken to my supreme word,” bhūya evaśṛṇu me paramaṁ vacaḥ. This <a id="_idIndexMarker1161"></a><span class="Index-Entry">supreme word</span> of the Gita is, we find, first the explicit and unmistakable declaration that the highest worship and highest knowledge of the Eternal are the knowledge and the adoration of him as the supreme and divine Origin of all that is in existence and the mighty Lord of the world and its peoples of whose being all things are the becomings. It is, secondly, the declaration of a unified knowledge and bhakti as the supreme Yoga; that is the destined and the natural way given to man to arrive at union with the eternal Godhead. And to make more significant this definition of the way, to give an illuminating point to this highest importance of bhakti founded upon and opening to knowledge and made the basis and motive-power for divinely appointed works, the acceptance of it by the heart and mind of the disciple is put as a condition for the farther development by which the final command to action comes at last to be given to the human instrument, Arjuna. “I will speak this supreme word to thee” says the Godhead “from my will for thy soul’s good, now that thy heart is taking delight in me,” te prīyamāṇāya vakṣyāmi. For this delight of the heart in God is the whole constituent and essence of true bhakti, bhajanti prītipūrvakam. As soon as the supreme word is given, Arjuna is made to utter his acceptance of it and to ask for a practical way of seeing God in all things in Nature, and from that question immediately and naturally there develops the vision of the Divine as the Spirit of the universe and there arises the tremendous command to the world-action.<span id="footnote-056-backlink"><a class="_idFootnoteLink _idGenColorInherit" href="CWSA_1_(withoutred)_-_Finalforpress-258.xhtml#footnote-056">[5]</a></span>” (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">344</span>-<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">45</span>)</p>
			<hr class="HorizontalRule-1" />
			<div class="_idFootnotes">
				<div id="footnote-056" class="_idFootnote" epub:type="footnote">
					<p class="footnote"><a class="_idFootnoteAnchor _idGenColorInherit" href="CWSA_1_(withoutred)_-_Finalforpress-258.xhtml#footnote-056-backlink">[5]</a> Gita, X. 1-18.</p>
				</div>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
