<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_1_(withoutred)_-_Finalforpress-117</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_1_-withoutred-_-_Finalforpress-117" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-123" class="SubHead1">Record of Yoga, 7.9.1913 – Vijnanamaya Drishti</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“...the movements of men &amp; animals are now perfectly understood, their hesitations &amp; rejected or modified ideas &amp; impulses as well as those which eventuate in action. It is evident, now, out of what a complex mental tangle the single clear &amp; decisive act proceeds. In the animals it is sometimes an obscure &amp; sudden suggestion which contradicts all the previous thinking &amp; tendency &amp; often half consciously forces the action. But often also in them an impulse abandoned and forgotten by the mind remains in &amp; dominates the subconscious pranic energy and dominates a subsequent action. The same is true but in a less degree of man. In the insects the mind counts for much less than this pranic energy. Subsequently the basis of the telepathic trikaldrishti was shown to reside in the perception of the movements of this pranic energy, <a id="_idIndexMarker556"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Matariswan</span>, which governs action, apo Matariswá dadhati. An ant was climbing up the wall in an upward stream of ants; there was no sign of its reversing its progress; but the trikaldrishti saw that the ant would turn &amp; go down, not upwards. At first it made a movement of uncertainty, then proceeded upward, then suddenly left the stream and went steadily &amp; swiftly downwards. Afterwards the source of the trikaldrishti was seen, a coming movement of pranic energy, prepared in the sat-Brahman, latent both to the waking consciousness of the ant &amp; my own, but caught by the vijnanamaya drishti. In another instance the same movement of energy was perceived in another ant and followed by an indicative movement, but it was also perceived that this was not the eventual impulse, &amp; as a matter of fact a strong contrary tension intervened &amp; carried the insect upward. In all these cases, the perception of the impulse by prakamya vyapti is not enough; the vijnana distinguishing the nature &amp; fate of the tapas is required to constitute trikaldrishti. All error now consists in the absence of this distinguishing perception or in the false mental stress which tends to replace its unerring accuracy.” (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">290</span>-<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">91</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
