<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_1_(withoutred)_-_Finalforpress-14</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_1_-withoutred-_-_Finalforpress-14" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-15" class="SubHead1">The Old <a id="_idIndexMarker060"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Aryan System of Education</span></h2>
			<p class="body-text">“At the basis of the old Aryan system was the all-important discipline of <a id="_idIndexMarker061"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Brahmacharya</span>. The first necessity for the building up of a great intellectual superstructure is to provide a foundation strong enough to bear it. Those systems of education which start from an insufficient knowledge of man, think they have provided a satisfactory foundation when they have supplied the student with a large or well-selected mass of information on the various subjects which comprise the best part of human culture at the time. The school gives the materials, it is for the student to use them, – this is the formula. But the error here is fundamental. Information cannot be the foundation of intelligence, it can only be part of the material out of which the knower builds knowledge, the starting-point, the nucleus of fresh discovery and enlarged creation. An education that confines itself to imparting knowledge, is no education. The various faculties of <a id="_idIndexMarker062"></a><span class="Index-Entry">memory</span>, <a id="_idIndexMarker063"></a><span class="Index-Entry">judgment</span>, <a id="_idIndexMarker064"></a><span class="Index-Entry">imagination</span>, <a id="_idIndexMarker065"></a><span class="Index-Entry">perception</span>, <a id="_idIndexMarker066"></a><span class="Index-Entry">reasoning</span>, which build the edifice of <a id="_idIndexMarker067"></a>thought and knowledge for the knower, must not only be equipped with their fit and sufficient tools and materials, but trained to bring fresh materials and use more skilfully those of which they are in possession. And the foundation of the structure they have to build, can only be the provision of a fund of force and energy sufficient to bear the demands of a continually growing activity of the memory, judgment and creative power. Where is that <span class="Index-Entry">energy</span> to be found?</p>
			<p class="body-text">The ancient Aryans knew that man was not separate from the universe, but only a homogeneous part of it, as a wave is part of the ocean. An infinite <a id="_idIndexMarker068"></a><span class="Index-Entry">energy</span>, <a id="_idIndexMarker069"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Prakriti</span>, <a id="_idIndexMarker070"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Maya</span> or <a id="_idIndexMarker071"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Shakti</span>, pervades the world, pours itself into every name and form, and the clod, the plant, the insect, the animal, the man are, in their phenomenal existence, merely more or less efficient ādhāras of this Energy. We are each of us a dynamo into which waves of that energy have been generated and stored, and are being perpetually conserved, used up and replenished. The same force which moves in the star and the planet, moves in us, and all our thought and action are merely its play and born of the complexity of its functionings. There are processes by which man can increase his capacity as an ādhāra. There are other processes by which he can clear of obstructions the channel of communication between himself and the <a id="_idIndexMarker072"></a><span class="Index-Entry">universal energy</span> and bring greater and greater stores of it pouring into his soul and brain and body. This continual improvement of the <a id="_idIndexMarker073"></a><span class="Index-Entry">ā</span><span class="Index-Entry">dh</span><span class="Index-Entry">ā</span><span class="Index-Entry">ra</span> and increase in quantity and complexity of action of the informing energy, is the whole aim of evolution. When that energy is the highest in kind and the fullest in amount of which the human ādhāra is capable, and the ādhāra itself is trained utterly to bear the inrush and play of the energy, then is a man siddha, the fulfilled or <a id="_idIndexMarker074"></a><span class="Index-Entry">perfect man</span>, his evolution is over and he has completed in the individual that utmost development which the mass of humanity is labouring towards through the ages.</p>
			<p class="body-text">If this theory be correct, the energy at the basis of the operation of intelligence must be in ourselves and it must be capable of greater expansion and richer use to an extent practically unlimited. And this also must be a sound principle, that the more we can increase and enrich the energy, the greater will be the potential range, power and activity of the functions of our mind and the consequent vigour of our intellectuality and the greatness of our achievement. This was the first principle on which the ancient Aryans based their education and one of the chief processes which they used for the increased storage of energy, was the practice of <a id="_idIndexMarker075"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Brahmacharya</span>.” (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">369</span>-<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">71</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
