<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_1_(withoutred)_-_Finalforpress-24</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_1_-withoutred-_-_Finalforpress-24" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-25" class="SubHead1">The Three Uses of <a id="_idIndexMarker169"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Art</span> </h2>
			<p class="body-text">“The first and lowest <a id="_idIndexMarker170"></a>use of Art is the purely aesthetic, the second is the intellectual or educative, the third and highest the spiritual. By speaking of the aesthetic use as the lowest, we do not wish to imply that it is not of immense value to humanity, but simply to assign to it its comparative value in relation to the higher uses. The aesthetic is of immense importance and until it has done its work, mankind is not really fitted to make full use of Art on the higher planes of human development. <a id="_idIndexMarker171"></a>Aristotle assigns a high value to tragedy because of its purifying force. He describes its effect as <a id="_idIndexMarker172"></a><span class="Index-Entry">katharsis</span>, a sacramental word of the Greek mysteries, which, in the secret discipline of the ancient Greek Tantrics, answered precisely to our <a id="_idIndexMarker173"></a><span class="Index-Entry">citta</span><span class="Index-Entry">ś</span><span class="Index-Entry">uddhi</span>, the purification of the citta or mass of established ideas, feelings and actional habits in a man either by <a id="_idIndexMarker174"></a><span class="Index-Entry">sa</span><span class="Index-Entry">ṁ</span><span class="Index-Entry">yama</span>, rejection, or by <a id="_idIndexMarker175"></a><span class="Index-Entry">bhoga</span>, satisfaction, or by both. Aristotle was speaking of the purification of feelings, passions and emotions in the heart through imaginative treatment in poetry but the truth the idea contains is of much wider application and constitutes the justification of the aesthetic side of art. It purifies by beauty. The beautiful and the good are held by many thinkers to be the same and, though the idea may be wrongly stated, it is, when put from the right standpoint, not only a truth but the fundamental truth of existence. According to our own philosophy the whole world came out of <a id="_idIndexMarker176"></a><span class="Index-Entry">ā</span><span class="Index-Entry">nanda</span> and returns into ānanda, and the triple term in which ānanda may be stated is Joy, Love, Beauty. To see divine beauty in the whole world, man, life, nature, to love that which we have seen and to have pure unalloyed bliss in that love and that beauty is the appointed road by which mankind as a race must climb to God. That is the reaching to <a id="_idIndexMarker177"></a><span class="Index-Entry">vidy</span><span class="Index-Entry">ā</span> through <a id="_idIndexMarker178"></a><span class="Index-Entry">a</span><span class="Index-Entry">vidy</span><span class="Index-Entry">ā</span>, to the One Pure and Divine through the manifold manifestation of Him, of which the Upanishad repeatedly speaks. But the bliss must be pure and unalloyed, unalloyed by self-regarding emotions, unalloyed by pain and evil. The sense of good and bad, beautiful and unbeautiful, which afflicts our understanding and our senses, must be replaced by <a id="_idIndexMarker179"></a><span class="Index-Entry">akha</span><span class="Index-Entry">ṇḍ</span><span class="Index-Entry">a rasa</span>, undifferentiated and unabridged delight in the delightfulness of things, before the highest can be reached. On the way to this goal full use must be made of the lower and abridged sense of beauty which seeks to replace the less beautiful by the more, the lower by the higher, the mean by the noble.</p>
			<p class="body-text">At a certain stage of human development the aesthetic sense is of infinite value in this direction. It raises and purifies conduct by instilling a distaste for the coarse desires and passions of the savage, for the rough, uncouth and excessive in action and manner, and restraining both feeling and action by a striving after the decent, the beautiful, the fit and seemly which received its highest expression in the manners of cultivated European society, the elaborate ceremonious life of the Confucian, the careful <a id="_idIndexMarker180"></a><span class="Index-Entry">ā</span><span class="Index-Entry">c</span><span class="Index-Entry">ā</span><span class="Index-Entry">ra</span> and <a id="_idIndexMarker181"></a>etiquette of Hinduism. At the present stage of progress this element is losing much of its once all-important value and, when overstressed, tends to hamper a higher development by the obstruction of soulless ceremony and formalism. Its great use was to discipline the savage animal instincts of the body, the vital instincts and the lower feelings in the heart. Its disadvantage to progress is that it tends to trammel the play both of the higher feelings of the heart and the workings of originality in thought.” (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">439</span>-<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">41</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
