<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_1_(withoutred)_-_Finalforpress-145</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_1_-withoutred-_-_Finalforpress-145" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-152" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idIndexMarker823"></a><span class="Index-Entry">God</span></h2>
			<p class="body-text">“A beginningless and endless eternity and infinity in which divisible <a id="_idIndexMarker824"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Time and Space</span> manage to subsist is the mould of existence. They succeed in subsisting because they are upheld by God’s view of Himself in things.</p>
			<p class="body-text">God is all existence. Existence is a representation of ineffable Being. Being is neither eternal nor temporary, neither infinite nor limited, neither one nor many; it is nothing that any word of our speech can describe nor any thought of our mentality can conceive. The word existence unduly limits it; eternity &amp; infinity are too petty conceptions; the term Being is an x representing not an unknown but an unknowable value. All values proceed from the Brahman, but it is itself beyond all values.</p>
			<p class="body-text">This existence is an incalculable Fact in which all possible opposites meet; its opposites are in truth identities.</p>
			<p class="body-text">It is neither one nor many and yet both one and many. Numberlessness increases in it and extends till it reaches unity; unity broken cannot stop short of numberlessness.</p>
			<p class="body-text">It is neither personal nor impersonal and yet at once personal and impersonal. Personality is a fiction of the impersonal; impersonality the mask of a Person. That impersonal Brahman was all the time a world-transcendent Personality and universal Person, is the truth of things as it is represented by life and consciousness. “I am” is the eternal assertion. Analytic thought gets rid of the I, but the Am remains and brings it back. Materialism changes “I am” into “It is”, and when it has done so, has changed nothing. The Nihilist gets rid of both Am and Is only to find them waiting for him beyond on either side of his negation.</p>
			<p class="body-text">When we examine the Infinite and the Finite, Form and the Formless, the Silence and the Activity, our oppositions are equally baffled. Try however hard we will, God will not allow us to exclude any of them from His fathomless universality. He carries all Himself with Him into every transcendence.” (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">142</span>-<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">43</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
