<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_1_(withoutred)_-_Finalforpress-123</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_1_-withoutred-_-_Finalforpress-123" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-129" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idIndexMarker608"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Om Tat Sat</span></h2>
			<p class="body-text">“The highest interpretation hitherto made in human understanding and experience may thus be stated with the proviso that since it is human it must be incomplete.</p>
			<p class="body-text">TAT. That.</p>
			<p class="body-text">The Absolute Unmanifested – Parabrahman, Purushottama, Parameswara (holding in himself the Parâshakti and in her the All).</p>
			<p class="body-text">SAT. The Existent (I Am.)</p>
			<p class="body-text">The Absolute containing all the power of the manifestation. The Absolute is Parabrahman-Mahâmâyâ. The Absolute is Purushottama-Parâprakriti. The Absolute is Parameswara-Âdyâ (original) Parâshakti.</p>
			<p class="body-text">OM. The Word of Manifestation.</p>
			<p class="body-text">A&#9;&#9;The external manifestation (consciousness realised in the actual and concrete – seen by the human consciousness as the waking state.)</p>
			<p class="body-text">U&#9;&#9;The internal manifestation (intermediate – the inner, not the inmost being – consciousness realised in the inner potentialities and intermediate states between the inmost supramental and the external – seen by the human consciousness as the subliminal and associated with the dream state.)</p>
			<p class="body-text">M &#9;The inmost seed or condensed consciousness (the inmost supramental, glimpsed by the human consciousness as something superconscient, omniscient and omnipotent, and associated with the state of dreamless Sleep or full Trance.)</p>
			<p class="body-text">AUM&#9;<a id="_idIndexMarker609"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Turiya</span>, the Fourth; the pure Spirit beyond these three, Atman consciousness entering into Tat Sat and able to identify with it. Believed to be obtainable in its absoluteness only in absolute Trance – <a id="_idIndexMarker610"></a><span class="Index-Entry">nirvikalpa samadhi</span>.” (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">1337</span>-<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">38</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
