<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_1_(withoutred)_-_Finalforpress-167</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_1_-withoutred-_-_Finalforpress-167" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-174" class="SubHead1">Thoughts and Aphorisms</h2>
			<p class="body-text">Jnana</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">1</span>. There are two allied powers in man; knowledge &amp; wisdom. <a id="_idIndexMarker862"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Knowledge</span> is so much of the truth seen in a distorted medium as the mind arrives at by groping, wisdom what the eye of divine vision sees in the spirit. (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">423</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">2</span>. <a id="_idIndexMarker863"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Inspiration</span> is a slender river of brightness leaping from a vast &amp; eternal knowledge, it exceeds reason more perfectly than reason exceeds the knowledge of the senses. (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">423</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">3</span>. When I speak, the reason says, “This will I say”; but God takes the word out of my mouth and the lips say something else at which reason trembles. (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">423</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">5</span>. If mankind could but see though in a glimpse of fleeting experience what infinite enjoyments, what perfect forces, what luminous reaches of spontaneous knowledge, what wide calms of our being lie waiting for us in the tracts which our animal evolution has not yet conquered, they would leave all &amp; never rest till they had gained these treasures. But the way is narrow, the doors are hard to force, and <a id="_idIndexMarker864"></a><span class="Index-Entry">fear</span>, <a id="_idIndexMarker865"></a><span class="Index-Entry">distrust</span> &amp; <a id="_idIndexMarker866"></a><span class="Index-Entry">scepticism</span> are there, sentinels of Nature, to forbid the turning away of our feet from her ordinary pastures. (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">423</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">10</span>. What the soul sees and has experienced, that it knows; the rest is appearance, prejudice and opinion. (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">424</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">15</span>. <a id="_idIndexMarker867"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Hallucination</span> is the term of <a id="_idIndexMarker868"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Science</span> for those irregular glimpses we still have of truths shut out from us by our preoccupation with matter; coincidence for the curious touches of artistry in the work of that supreme &amp; universal Intelligence which in its conscious being as on a canvas has planned &amp; executed the world. (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">424</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">16</span>. That which men term a hallucination is the reflection in the mind &amp; senses of that which is beyond our ordinary mental &amp; sensory perceptions. Superstition arises from the mind’s wrong understanding of these reflections. There is no other hallucination. (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">425</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">19</span>. <a id="_idIndexMarker869"></a>Chance is not in this universe; the idea of illusion is itself an illusion. There was never illusion yet in the human mind that was not the concealing [?shape] and disfigurement of a truth. (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">425</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">21</span>. God had opened my eyes; for I saw the nobility of the vulgar, the attractiveness of the repellent, the perfection of the maimed and the beauty of the hideous. (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">425</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">22</span>. Forgiveness is praised by the Christian and the Vaishnava, but for me, I ask, “What have I to forgive and whom?” (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">425</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">38</span>. Some say <a id="_idIndexMarker870"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Krishna</span> never lived, he is a myth. They mean on earth; for if Brindavun existed nowhere, the Bhagwat could not have been written. (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">427</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">39</span>. Strange! the Germans have disproved the existence of Christ; yet his crucifixion remains still a greater historic fact than the death of Caesar. (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">427</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">40</span>. Sometimes one is led to think that only those things really matter which have never happened; for beside them most historic achievements seem almost pale and ineffective. (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">427</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">41</span>. There are four very great events in history, the siege of Troy, the life and crucifixion of Christ, the exile of Krishna in Brindavun and the colloquy with Arjuna on the field of Kurukshetra. The siege of Troy created Hellas, the exile in Brindavun created devotional religion, (for before there was only meditation and worship,) Christ from his cross humanised Europe, the colloquy at Kurukshetra will yet liberate humanity. Yet it is said that none of these four events ever happened. (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">427</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">42</span>. They say that the Gospels are forgeries and <a id="_idIndexMarker871"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Krishna</span> a creation of the poets. Thank God then for the forgeries and bow down before the creators. (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">427</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">45</span>. Only those thoughts are true the opposite of which is also true in its own time and application; indisputable dogmas are the most dangerous kind of falsehoods. (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">428</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">46</span>. <a id="_idIndexMarker872"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Logic</span> is the worst enemy of Truth, as self-righteousness is the worst enemy of virtue, – for the one cannot see its own errors nor the other its own imperfections. (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">428</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">56</span>. Be wide in me, O Varuna; be mighty in me, O Indra; O Sun, be very bright and luminous; O Moon, be full of charm and sweetness. Be fierce and terrible, O Rudra; be impetuous and swift, O Maruts; be strong and bold, O Aryama; be voluptuous and pleasurable, O Bhaga; be tender and kind and loving and passionate, O Mitra. Be bright and revealing, O Dawn; O Night, be solemn and pregnant. O Life, be full, ready &amp; buoyant; O Death, lead my steps from mansion to mansion. Harmonise all these, O Brahmanaspati. Let me not be subject to these gods, O Kali. (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">429</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">61</span>. There is no mortality. It is only the Immortal who can die; the mortal could neither be born nor perish. There is nothing finite. It is only the Infinite who can make for Himself limits; the finite can have no beginning nor end, for the very act of conceiving its beginning &amp; end declares its infinity. (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">430</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">65</span>. Because God is invincibly great, He can afford to be weak; because He is immutably pure, He can indulge with impunity in sin; He knows eternally all delight, therefore He tastes also the delight of pain; He is inalienably wise, therefore He has not debarred Himself from folly. (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">430</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">66</span>. <a id="_idIndexMarker873"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Sin</span> is that which was once in its place, persisting now it is out of place; there is no other sinfulness. (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">430</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">67</span>. There is no sin in man, but a great deal of disease, ignorance and misapplication. (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">430</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">70</span>. Examine thyself without pity, then thou wilt be more charitable and pitiful to others. (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">431</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">73</span>. When Wisdom comes, her first lesson is, “There is no such thing as knowledge; there are only aperçus of the Infinite Deity.” (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">431</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">76</span>. <a id="_idIndexMarker874"></a>Europe prides herself on her practical and scientific organisation and efficiency. I am waiting till her organisation is perfect; then a child shall destroy her. (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">431</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">78</span>. When knowledge is fresh in us, then it is invincible; when it is old, it loses its virtue. This is because God moves always forward. (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">432</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">79</span>. <a id="_idIndexMarker875"></a><span class="Index-Entry">God</span> is infinite Possibility. Therefore Truth is never at rest; therefore, also, Error is justified of her children. (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">432</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">84</span>. The <a id="_idIndexMarker876"></a>supernatural is that the nature of which we have not attained or do not yet know, or the means of which we have not yet conquered. The common taste for miracles is the sign that man’s ascent is not yet finished. (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">432</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">91</span>. If Life alone were &amp; not death, there could be no immortality; if love were alone &amp; not cruelty, joy would be only a tepid &amp; ephemeral rapture; if reason were alone &amp; not ignorance, our highest attainment would not exceed a limited rationality &amp; worldly wisdom. (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">433</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">92</span>. <a id="_idIndexMarker877"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Death</span> transformed becomes Life that is Immortality; Cruelty transfigured becomes Love that is intolerable ecstasy; Ignorance transmuted becomes Light that leaps beyond wisdom and knowledge. (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">433</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">100</span>. Shun all lowness, narrowness &amp; shallowness in religious thought &amp; experience. Be wider than the widest horizons, be loftier than the highest Kanchenjunga, be profounder than the deepest oceans. (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">434</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">102</span>. To the senses it is always true that the sun moves round the earth; this is false to the reason. To the reason it is always true that the earth moves round the sun; this is false to the supreme vision. Neither earth moves nor sun; there is only a change in the relation of sun-consciousness &amp; earth-consciousness. (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">434</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">110</span>. To see the composition of the sun or the lines of Mars is doubtless a great achievement; but when thou hast the instrument that can show thee a man’s soul as thou seest a picture, then thou wilt smile at the wonders of <a id="_idIndexMarker878"></a>physical Science as the playthings of babies. (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">435</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">114</span>. <a id="_idIndexMarker879"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Selfishness</span> is the only <a id="_idIndexMarker880"></a><span class="Index-Entry">sin</span>, meanness the only vice, hatred the only criminality. All else can easily be turned into good, but these are obstinate resisters of deity. (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">436</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">116</span>. The beginning and end of things is a conventional term of our experience; in their true existence these terms have no reality, there is no end and no beginning. (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">436</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">117</span>. “Neither is it that I was not before nor thou nor these kings nor that all we shall not be hereafter.” Not only Brahman, but beings &amp; things in Brahman are eternal; their creation and destruction is a play of hide and seek with our outward consciousness. (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">436</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">125</span>. Every law, however embracing or tyrannous, meets somewhere a contrary law by which its operation can be checked, modified, annulled or eluded. (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">437</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">131</span>. Because God has willed and foreseen everything, thou shouldst not therefore sit inactive and wait upon His providence, for thy action is one of His chief effective forces. Up then and be doing, not with egoism, but as the circumstance, instrument and apparent cause of the event that He has predetermined. (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">438</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">189</span>. Live within; be not shaken by outward happenings. (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">447</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text"><a id="_idIndexMarker881"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Karma</span></p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">225</span>. Selfishness kills the soul; destroy it. But take care that your altruism does not kill the souls of others. (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">455</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">226</span>. Very usually, <a id="_idIndexMarker882"></a><span class="Index-Entry">altruism</span> is only the sublimest form of selfishness. (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">455</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">230</span>. <a id="_idIndexMarker883"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Courage</span> and <a id="_idIndexMarker884"></a><span class="Index-Entry">love</span> are the only indispensable virtues; even if all the others are eclipsed or fall asleep, these two will save the soul alive. (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">455</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">240</span>. <a id="_idIndexMarker885"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Atheism</span> is a necessary protest against the wickedness of the Churches and the narrowness of creeds. God uses it as a stone to smash these soiled card-houses. (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">456</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">242</span>. God guides best when He tempts worst, loves entirely when He punishes cruelly, helps perfectly when violently He opposes. (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">456</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">243</span>. If God did not take upon Himself the burden of tempting men, the world would very soon go to perdition. (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">457</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">254</span>. So long as a cause has on its side one soul that is intangible in faith, it cannot perish. (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">458</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">257</span>. The world thinks that it moves by the light of reason but it is really impelled by its faiths and instincts. (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">458</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">258</span>. Reason adapts itself to the faith or argues out a justification of the instincts, but it receives the impulse subconsciously; therefore men think that they act rationally. (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">458</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">264</span>. If thy aim be great and thy means small, still act; for by action alone these can increase to thee. (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">459</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">319</span>. Governments, societies, kings, police, judges, institutions, churches, laws, customs, armies are temporary necessities imposed on us for a few groups of centuries because God has concealed His face from us. When it appears to us again in its truth &amp; beauty, then in that light they will vanish. (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">465</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">327</span>. The individual cannot be perfect until he has surrendered all he now calls himself to the divine Being. So also, until mankind gives all it has to God, never shall there be a perfected society. (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">466</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">342</span>. The gain of <a id="_idIndexMarker886"></a><span class="Index-Entry">democracy</span> is the security of the individual’s life, liberty and goods from the caprices of the tyrant one or the selfish few; its evil is the decline of greatness in humanity. (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">468</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">343</span>. This <a id="_idIndexMarker887"></a>erring race of human beings dreams always of perfecting their environment by the machinery of government and society; but it is only by the perfection of the soul within that the outer environment can be perfected. What thou art within, that outside thee thou shalt enjoy; no machinery can rescue thee from the law of thy being. (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">468</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">385</span>. <a id="_idIndexMarker888"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Disease</span> is needlessly prolonged &amp; ends in death oftener than is inevitable, because the mind of the patient supports &amp; dwells upon the disease of his body. (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">474</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">386</span>. <a id="_idIndexMarker889"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Medical Science</span> has been more a curse to mankind than a blessing. It has broken the force of epidemics and unveiled a marvellous surgery; but, also, it has weakened the natural health of man and multiplied individual diseases; it has implanted fear and dependence in the mind and body; it has taught our health to repose not on natural soundness but a rickety &amp; distasteful crutch compact from the mineral and vegetable kingdoms. (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">475</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">390</span>. It is not the medicine that cures so much as the patient’s faith in the doctor and the medicine. Both are a clumsy substitute for the natural faith in one’s own self-power which they have themselves destroyed. (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">475</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">397</span>. God within is infinite and self-fulfilling Will. Unappalled by the fear of death, canst thou leave to Him, not as an experiment, with a calm &amp; entire faith thy ailments? Thou shalt find in the end that He exceeds the skill of a million doctors. (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">476</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">400</span>. I would rather die and have done with it than spend life in defending myself against a phantasmal siege of microbes. If that is to be barbarous [and] unenlightened, I embrace gladly my Cimmerian darkness. (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">476</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">402</span>. It should take long for self-cure to replace medicine, because of the fear, self-distrust and unnatural physical reliance on drugs which Medical Science has taught to our minds &amp; bodies &amp; made our second nature. (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">477</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text"><a id="_idIndexMarker890"></a>Bhakti</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">411</span>. After I knew that God was a woman, I learned something from far-off about love; but it was only when I became a woman and served my Master and Paramour that I knew love utterly. (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">481</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">412</span>. To commit adultery with God is the perfect experience for which the world was created. (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">481</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">446</span>. “Errors, falsehoods, stumblings!” they cry. How bright and beautiful are Thy errors, O Lord! Thy falsehoods save Truth alive; by Thy stumblings the world is perfected. (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">485</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">463</span>. God has so arranged life that the world is the soul’s husband; Krishna its divine paramour. We owe a debt of service to the world and are bound to it by a law, a compelling opinion, and a common experience of pain and pleasure, but our heart’s worship and our free and secret joy are for our Lover. (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">487</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">475</span>. Discipleship to God the Teacher, sonship to God the Father, tenderness of God the Mother, clasp of the hand of the divine Friend, laughter and sport with our Comrade and boy Playfellow, blissful servitude to God the Master, rapturous love of our divine Paramour, these are the seven beatitudes of life in the human body. Canst thou unite all these in a single supreme &amp; rainbow-hued relation? Then hast thou no need of any heaven and thou exceedest the emancipation of the Adwaitin. (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">489</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">478</span>. A God who cannot smile, could not have created this humorous universe. (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">490</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">481</span>. The seeker after divine knowledge finds in the description of Krishna stealing the robes of the Gopis one of the deepest parables of God’s ways with the soul, the devotee a perfect rendering in divine act of his heart’s mystic experiences, the prurient &amp; the Puritan (two faces of one temperament) only a lustful story. Men bring what they have in themselves and see it reflected in the Scripture. (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">490</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">495</span>. I swore that I would not suffer from the world’s grief and the world’s stupidity and cruelty &amp; injustice and I made my heart as hard in endurance as the nether millstone and my mind as a polished surface of steel. I no longer suffered, but enjoyment had passed away from me. Then God broke my heart and ploughed up my mind. I rose through cruel &amp; incessant anguish to a blissful painlessness and through sorrow and indignation &amp; revolt to an infinite knowledge and a settled peace. (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">492</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">511</span>. God’s servant is something; God’s slave is greater. (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">495</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">514</span>. There are two works that are perfectly pleasing to God in his servant; to sweep in silent adoration His temple-floors and to fight in the world’s battlefield for His divine consummation in humanity. (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">495</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">527</span>. To find that saving a man’s body or mind from suffering is not always for the good of either soul, mind or body, is one of the bitterest of experiences for the humanly compassionate. (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">497</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">528</span>. Human pity is born of ignorance &amp; weakness; it is the slave of emotional impressions. <a id="_idIndexMarker891"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Divine compassion</span> understands, discerns &amp; saves. (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">497</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">529</span>. Indiscriminate compassion is the noblest gift of temperament, not to do even the least hurt to one living thing is the highest of all human virtues; but God practises neither. Is man therefore nobler and better than the All-loving? (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">497</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">531</span>. Not to have heard the voice of God and His angels is the world’s idea of sanity. (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">497</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">540</span>. Canst thou see God in thy torturer &amp; slayer even in thy moment of death or thy hours of torture? Canst thou see Him in that which thou art slaying, see &amp; love even while thou slayest? Thou hast thy hand on the supreme knowledge. How shall he attain to Krishna who has never worshipped Kali? (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">499</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text">Additional Aphorisms</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">541</span>. I know that the opposite of what I say is true, but for the present what I say is still truer. (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">500</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">542</span>. I believe with you, my friends, that God, if He exists, is a demon and an ogre. But after all what are you going to do about it? (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">500</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">544</span>. Our Evil is to God not evil, but ignorance and imperfection, our good a lesser imperfection. (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">500</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">545</span>. The religionist speaks a truth, though too violently, when he tells us that even our greatest and purest virtue is as vileness before the divine nature of God. (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">500</span>)</p>
		</div>
		<div class="_idGenObjectLayout-1">
			<div id="_idContainer021">
			</div>
		</div>
		<div id="_idContainer022" class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h1 id="_idParaDest-175" class="Headline">Volume 13<br />Essays in Philosophy and Yoga</h1>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
