<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_1_(withoutred)_-_Finalforpress-115</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_1_-withoutred-_-_Finalforpress-115" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-121" class="SubHead1">Record of Yoga, 31.1.1913 – A New Way of Perceiving Life and Action</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“Formerly life was regarded as a thing to be worked upon and worked out, by active mental will and bodily means, speech, writing, work etc. A thing written had to be composed. An intellectual difficulty had to be thought out, a conclusion fixed and edified. That which was undiscovered, had to be sought for by speculation, reasoning, experiment. That which was unattained, had to be constructed by labour, attempt, adaptation of means, careful manipulation of materials. The remnants of this way of seeing clung until now to the thought and action, but henceforth it is removed. Life is a great mass of existence, Sat, moulding itself through its own Tapas. All that has to be done is for the Jiva, the knowledge centre of this existence, to sit fast in his city, navadware pure, &amp; allow the infinite Tapas to manifest through him, accepting it, sanctioning it, (<a id="_idIndexMarker545"></a>anumati), giving the command to fulfil it to his helping devatas, (<a id="_idIndexMarker546"></a>ishwara), holding up the whole system &amp; its working, (<a id="_idIndexMarker547"></a>bharta), and watching &amp; enjoying the results. The Tapas may be with knowledge &amp; then the results will be perfectly in accordance with what is intended, for what is intended, will be what is known to the mind as the thing that has to be done or is to happen, kartavyam karma; if it is without knowledge or with imperfect knowledge, it will still be known as the thing which God intends the individual system to lay stress upon (tapyeta), therefore to be willed, and the result, whether in accordance with the <a id="_idIndexMarker548"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Tapas</span>, or adverse to it, chosen or not chosen (ishta, anishta, priya apriya), favourable or adverse (mangala, amangala,) success or failure, (siddhi asiddhi, jayajayau,) will be the unseen thing that all along had to be &amp; towards which all tapas has been contributing, (adrishtam, bhavitavyam), therefore to be accepted with equality of mind and with equality of ananda. This must be the first principle of the new period of action.</p>
			<p class="body-text">The second principle, which has also been long preparing, is the renunciation of <a id="_idIndexMarker549"></a>nigraha or as it used to be called, <a id="_idIndexMarker550"></a><span class="Index-Entry">tapasyá</span>. Not that the Tapas may not have to persist under difficulties, but no violence has to be done to the Prakriti. It has to work out its own defects. This is now possible, because of the growth of the supreme or quaternary dasya, by which the very thought &amp; feeling comes only as things impelled by the divine hand of the Master &amp; Sarathi. Absolute <a id="_idIndexMarker551"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Samata</span> &amp; passivity are now possible.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Therefore in action there will be no planning, only seeing of the way the thing to be done will develop under the shaping of the divine Tapas whether through myself or others; in writing no composition, only the record of the <a id="_idIndexMarker552"></a><span class="Index-Entry">vak</span> as it flows down from above and forms itself in the Sat of Mind; in Yoga no sadhan, but only the acceptance of the self-organising movements of the anandamaya vijnanamaya Prakriti as it progressively takes entire possession of this inferior mental &amp; physical kingdom.” (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">222</span>-<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">23</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
