<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_1_(withoutred)_-_Finalforpress-51</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_1_-withoutred-_-_Finalforpress-51" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-53" class="SubHead1">Ascent*</h2>
			<p class="body-text">(<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">2</span>) Beyond the Silence</p>
			<p class="body-text">Out from the Silence, out from the Silence,</p>
			<p class="body-text">Carrying with thee the ineffable Substance,</p>
			<p class="body-text">Carrying with thee the splendour and wideness,</p>
			<p class="body-text">Ascend, O Spirit immortal. </p>
			<p class="body-text">Assigning to Time its endless meaning,</p>
			<p class="body-text">Blissful enter into the clasp of the Timeless.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Awake in the living Eternal, taken to the bosom of love of </p>
			<p class="body-text">the Infinite,</p>
			<p class="body-text">Live self-found in his endless completeness,</p>
			<p class="body-text">Drowned in his joy and his sweetness,</p>
			<p class="body-text">Thy heart close to the heart of the Godhead for ever.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Vast, God-possessing, embraced by the Wonderful,</p>
			<p class="body-text">Lifted by the All-Beautiful into his infinite beauty,</p>
			<p class="body-text">Love shall envelop thee endless and fathomless,</p>
			<p class="body-text">Joy unimaginable, ecstasy illimitable,</p>
			<p class="body-text">Knowledge omnipotent, Might omniscient,</p>
			<p class="body-text">Light without darkness, Truth that is dateless.</p>
			<p class="body-text">One with the Transcendent, calm, universal,</p>
			<p class="body-text">Single and free, yet innumerably living,</p>
			<p class="body-text">All in thyself and thyself in all dwelling,</p>
			<p class="body-text">Act in the world with thy being beyond it.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Soul, exceed life’s boundaries; Spirit, surpass the universe.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Outclimbing the summits of Nature,</p>
			<p class="body-text">Transcending and uplifting the soul of the finite,</p>
			<p class="body-text">Rise with the world in thy bosom,</p>
			<p class="body-text">O Word gathered into the heart of the Ineffable.</p>
			<p class="body-text">One with the Eternal, live in his infinity,</p>
			<p class="body-text">Drowned in the Absolute, found in the Godhead,</p>
			<p class="body-text">Swan of the supreme and spaceless ether wandering winged </p>
			<p class="body-text">through the universe,</p>
			<p class="body-text">Spirit immortal. (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">581</span>-<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">82</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
