<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_1_(withoutred)_-_Finalforpress-81</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_1_-withoutred-_-_Finalforpress-81" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-84" class="SubHead1">The Glory of God in Man and the Falsity of <a id="_idIndexMarker330"></a>Intellectual Pride</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“If anyone thinks that we are merely intellectual beings, he is not a <a id="_idIndexMarker331"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Hindu</span>. <a id="_idIndexMarker332"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Hinduism</span> leaves the glorification of intellectuality to those who have never seen God. She is commissioned by Him to speak only of His greatness and majesty and she has so spoken for thousands of years. When we first received a European education, we allowed ourselves to be misled by the light of science. <a id="_idIndexMarker333"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Science</span> is a light within a limited room, not the sun which illumines the world. The <a id="_idIndexMarker334"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Apara Vidya</span> is the sum of science but there is a higher Vidya, a mightier knowledge. When we are under the influence of the lower knowledge, we imagine that we are doing everything and try to reason out the situation we find ourselves in, as if our intellect were sovereign and omnipotent. But this is an attitude of delusion and <a id="_idIndexMarker335"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Maya</span>. Whoever has once felt the glory of God within him can never again believe that the intellect is supreme. There is a higher voice, there is a more unfailing oracle. It is in the heart where God resides. He works through the brain, but the brain is only one of His instruments. Whatever the brain may plan, the heart knows first and whoever can go beyond the brain to the heart, will hear the voice of the Eternal.” (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">7</span>: <span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">891</span>-<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">92</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
