<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_1_(withoutred)_-_Finalforpress-169</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_1_-withoutred-_-_Finalforpress-169" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-177" class="SubHead1">The <a id="_idIndexMarker897"></a>Process of the Purnayoga</h2>
			<p class="body-text">The first process of the yoga is to make the <a id="_idIndexMarker898"></a><span class="Index-Entry">sa</span><span class="Index-Entry">ṅ</span><span class="Index-Entry">kalpa</span> of <a id="_idIndexMarker899"></a><span class="Index-Entry">ā</span><span class="Index-Entry">tmas</span><span class="Index-Entry">amarpa</span><span class="Index-Entry">ṇ</span><span class="Index-Entry">a</span>. Put yourself with all your heart and all your strength into God’s hands. Make no conditions, ask for nothing, not even for siddhi in the yoga, for nothing at all except that in you and through you his will may be directly performed. To those who demand from him, God gives what they demand, but to those who give themselves and demand nothing, he gives everything that they might otherwise have asked or needed and in addition he gives himself and the spontaneous boons of his love.</p>
			<p class="body-text">The next process is to stand aside and watch the working of the divine power in yourself. This working is often attended with disturbance and trouble in the system, therefore faith is necessary, though perfect <a id="_idIndexMarker900"></a><span class="Index-Entry">faith</span> is not always possible at once; for whatever impurity is in you, harboured openly or secretly lurking, is likely to rise at first and be repeated so long as it is not exhaustively swept out, and doubt in this age is an almost universal impurity. But even when doubt assails, stand by and wait for it to pass, availing yourself if possible of the <a id="_idIndexMarker901"></a><span class="Index-Entry">satsa</span><span class="Index-Entry">ṅ</span><span class="Index-Entry">ga</span> of those who are already advanced on the path, but when that is absent, still holding fast to the principle of the yoga, self-surrender. When distressed within or assailed from without, remember the words of the Gita,</p>
			<p class="body-text-hindi">मच्चितः सर्वदुर्गाणि मत्प्रसादात् तरिष्यसि ।</p>
			<p class="body-text">“By giving thyself up in heart and mind to Me, thou shalt cross over all difficulties and perils by My grace,” and again,</p>
			<p class="body-text-hindi">सर्वधर्मान् परित्यज्य मामेकं शरणं व्रज ।</p>
			<p class="body-text-hindi">अहं त्वा सर्वपापेभ्यो मोक्षयिष्यामि मा शुचः ।</p>
			<p class="body-text">“Abandon all dharmas (all law, rule, means and codes of every kind whether formed by previous habit and belief or imposed from outside) and take refuge in Me alone; I will deliver thee from all sin and evil, – do not grieve.” “I will deliver”, – you have not to be troubled or struggle yourself as if the responsibility were yours or the result depended on your efforts, a mightier than you is busy with the matter. Neither disease nor calamity nor the rising of sin and impurity in you should cause any alarm. Hold fast only to him. “I will deliver thee from all sin and evil.” But the release does not come by a sudden miracle, it comes by a process of purification and these things are a part of the process. They are like the dust that rises in clouds when a room long uncleaned is at last swept out. Though the dust seem to choke you, yet persevere, mā śucaḥ....</p>
			<p class="body-text">The third process of the yoga is to perceive all things as God. First, as a rule, in the process of knowledge one comes to see pervading all space and time one divine impersonal Existence, Sad Atman, without movement, distinction or feature, śāntam alakṣaṇam, in which all names and forms seem to stand with a very doubtful or a very minor reality. In this realisation the One may seem to be the only reality and everything else Maya, a purposeless and inexplicable illusion. But afterwards, if you do not stop short and limit yourself by the impersonal realisation, you will come to see the same Atman not only containing and supporting all created things, but informing and filling them, and eventually you will be able to understand that even the names and forms are Brahman. You will then be able to live more and more in the knowledge which the Upanishads and the Gita hold up as the rule of life; you will see the Self in all existing things and all existing things in the Self, ātmānaṁ sarvabhūteṣu sarvabhūtāni cātmani; you will be aware of all things as Brahman, sarvaṁ khalvidaṁ brahma. But the crowning realisation of this yoga is when you become aware of the whole world as the expression, play or Lila of an infinite divine personality, when you see in all, not the impersonal Sad Atman which is the basis of manifest existence, – although you do not lose that knowledge, – but Sri Krishna who at once is, bases and transcends all manifest and unmanifest existence, avyakto ’vyaktāt parah. For behind the Sad Atman is the silence of the Asat which the Buddhist Nihilists realised as the śunyam and beyond that silence is the Paratpara Purusha (puruṣo vareṇya ādityavarṇs tamasaḥ parastāt). It is he who has made this world out of his being and is immanent in and sustains it as the infinite-finite Ishwara, ananta and sānta, Shiva and Narayana, Sri Krishna the Lilamaya who draws all of us to him by his love, compels all of us by his masteries and plays his eternal play of joy and strength and beauty in the manifold world.</p>
			<p class="body-text">The world is only a play of his being, knowledge and delight, sat, cit and ānanda. Matter itself, you will one day realise, is not material, it is not substance but form of consciousness, guṇa, the result of quality of being perceived by sense-knowledge. Solidity itself is only a combination of the guṇas, saṁhati and dhṛti, cohesion and permanence, a state of conscious being, nothing else. Matter, life, mind and what is beyond mind, it is all Sri <a id="_idIndexMarker902"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Krishna</span> the Ananta-guna Brahman playing in the world as the <a id="_idIndexMarker903"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Sachchidananda</span>. When we have this realisation, when we dwell in it securely and permanently, all possibilities of grief and sin, fear, delusion, internal strife and pain are driven puissantly from our being. We realise in our experience the truth of the Upanishads, </p>
			<p class="body-text-hindi">आनन्दं ब्रह्मणो विद्वान् न बिभेति कतश्चन ।</p>
			<p class="body-text">“He who possesses the delight of the Brahman has no fear from anything in the world,” and that other in the Isha Upanishad, </p>
			<p class="body-text-hindi">यस्मिन् सर्वाणि भूतानि आत्मैवाभूद् विजानतः ।</p>
			<p class="body-text-hindi">तत्र को मोहः कः शोक एकत्वमनुपश्यतः ।।</p>
			<p class="body-text">“When all created things become one with a man’s self by his getting the knowledge (vijñāna), thereafter what bewilderment can he have or what grief, when in all things he sees their oneness?” The whole world then appears to us in a changed aspect, as an ocean of beauty, good, light, bliss, exultant movement on a basis of eternal strength and peace. We see all things as śubha, śiva, maṅgala, ānandamaya. We become one in soul with all beings, sarvabhūtātma-bhūtātmā, and, having steadfastly this experience, are able by contact, by oneness, by the reaching out of love, to communicate it to others, so that we become a centre of the radiation of this divine state, brāhmī sthiti, throughout our world.</p>
			<p class="body-text">It is not only in things animate but in things inanimate also that we must see Narayana, experience Shiva, throw our arms around Shakti. When our eyes, that are now blinded by the idea of Matter, open to the supreme Light, we shall find that nothing is inanimate, but all contains, expressed or unexpressed, involved or evolved, secret or manifest or in course of manifestation, not only that state of involved consciousness which we call annam or Matter, but also life, mind, knowledge, bliss, divine force and being, – prāṇa, manas, vijñāna, ānanda, cit, sat. In all things the self-conscious personality of God broods and takes the delight of his guṇas. Flowers, fruits, earth, trees, metals, all things have a joy in them of which you will become aware, because in all Sri Krishna dwells, praviśya, having entered into them, not materially or physically, – because there is no such thing, Space and Time being only conventions and arrangements of perception, the perspective in God’s creative Art, – but by cit, the divine awareness in his transcendent being.</p>
			<p class="body-text-hindi">ईशा वास्यमिदं सर्वं यत् किञ्च जगत्यां जगत् ।</p>
			<p class="body-text">“All this world and every object in this world of Prakriti has been created as a habitation for the Lord.” </p>
			<p class="body-text">Nor is it enough to see him in all things and beings, sarvabhūteṣu; you must see him in all events, actions, thoughts, feelings, in yourself and others, throughout the world. For this realisation two things are necessary: first, that you should give up to him the fruit of all your actions, secondly, that you should give up to him the actions themselves. Giving up the fruits of action does not mean that you must have the <a id="_idIndexMarker904"></a><span class="Index-Entry">vair</span><span class="Index-Entry">ā</span><span class="Index-Entry">gya</span> for the fruits, turn away from them or refuse to act with a given end before you. It means that you must act, not because you want this or that to happen or think it necessary that this or that should happen and your action needed to bring it about, but because it is <a id="_idIndexMarker905"></a><span class="Index-Entry">kartavyam</span>, demanded by the Master of your being and must be done with whatever result God is pleased to give. You must put aside what you want and wish to know what God wants; distrust what your heart, your passions or your habitual opinions prefer to hold as right and necessary, and passing beyond them, like Arjuna in the Gita, seek only to know what God has set down as right and necessary. Be strong in the faith that whatever is right and necessary will inevitably happen as the result of your due fulfilment of the kartavyaṁ karma, even if it is not the result that you preferred or expected. The power that governs the world is at least as wise as you and it is not absolutely necessary that you should be consulted or indulged in its management; God is seeing to it.” (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">74</span>-<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">79</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text">“These then are the processes of the yoga, (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">1</span>) the <a id="_idIndexMarker906"></a><span class="Index-Entry">sa</span><span class="Index-Entry">ṅ</span><span class="Index-Entry">kalpa</span> of <a id="_idIndexMarker907"></a><span class="Index-Entry">ā</span><span class="Index-Entry">tmasamarpa</span><span class="Index-Entry">ṇ</span><span class="Index-Entry">a</span>, (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">2</span>) the standing apart from the Adhar by self knowledge, (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">3</span>) the vision of God everywhere and in all things and in all happenings, the surrender of the fruits of action and action itself to God, and the freedom thereby from ignorance, from ahaṅkāra, from the dvandvas, from desire, so that you are śuddha, mukta, siddha, full of Ananda, pure, free, perfect and blissful in your being. But the processes will be worked out, once the saṅkalpa is made, by God’s Shakti, by a mighty process of Nature. All that is indispensable on your part is the anumati and smṛti. Anumati is consent, you must give a temporary consent to the movements of the yoga, to all that happens inside or outside you as part of the circumstances of the sadhana, not exulting at the good, not fretting at the evil, not struggling in your heart to keep the one or get rid of the other, but always keeping in mind and giving a permanent assent to that which has to be finally effected. The temporary consent is passive submission to the methods and not positive acceptance of the results. The permanent consent is an anticipatory acceptance of the results, a sort of effortless and desireless exercise of will. It is the constant exercise of this desireless will, an intent aspiration and constant remembrance of the path and its goal which are the <a id="_idIndexMarker908"></a><span class="Index-Entry">dh</span><span class="Index-Entry">ṛ</span><span class="Index-Entry">ti</span> and <a id="_idIndexMarker909"></a><span class="Index-Entry">uts</span><span class="Index-Entry">ā</span><span class="Index-Entry">ha</span> needed, the necessary steadfastness and zeal of the sadhak; <a id="_idIndexMarker910"></a><span class="Index-Entry">vy</span><span class="Index-Entry">ā</span><span class="Index-Entry">kulat</span><span class="Index-Entry">ā</span> or excited, passionate eagerness is more intense, but less widely powerful, and it is disturbing and exhausting, giving intense pleasure and pain in the pursuit but not so vast a bliss in the acquisition. The followers of this path must be like the men of the early yugas, <a id="_idIndexMarker911"></a><span class="Index-Entry">dh</span><span class="Index-Entry">ī</span><span class="Index-Entry">r</span><span class="Index-Entry">āḥ</span>, the great word of praise in the Upanishads. In the remembrance, the smṛti or smaraṇa, you must be apramatta, free from negligence. It is by the loss of the <a id="_idIndexMarker912"></a><span class="Index-Entry">sm</span><span class="Index-Entry">ṛ</span><span class="Index-Entry">ti</span> owing to the rush and onset of the guṇas that the yogin becomes bhraṣṭa, falls from his firm seat, wanders from his path. But you need not be distressed when the pramāda comes and the state of fall or clouded condition seems to persist, for there is no fear for you of a permanent fall since God himself has taken entire charge of you and if you stumble, it is because it is best for you to stumble, as a child by frequent stumbling and falling learns to walk. The necessity of apramattatā disappears when you can replace the memory of the yoga and its objects by the continual remembrance of God in all things and happenings, the nitya anusmaraṇa of the Gita. For those who can make the full surrender from the beginning there is no question; their path is utterly swift and easy. </p>
			<p class="body-text">It is said in the “Sanatsujatiya” that four things are necessary for siddhi – <a id="_idIndexMarker913"></a><span class="Index-Entry">śā</span><span class="Index-Entry">stra</span>, utsāha, <a id="_idIndexMarker914"></a><span class="Index-Entry">guru</span> and <a id="_idIndexMarker915"></a><span class="Index-Entry">k</span><span class="Index-Entry">ā</span><span class="Index-Entry">la</span> – the teaching of the path, zeal in following it, the Guru and time. Your path is that which I am pointing out, the utsāha needed is this anumati and this nitya smaraṇa, the Guru is God himself and for the rest only time is needed. That God himself is the Guru, you will find when knowledge comes to you; you will see how every little circumstance within you and without you has been subtly planned and brought about by infinite wisdom to carry out the natural process of the yoga, how the internal and external movements are arranged and brought together to work on each other, so as to work out the imperfection and work in the perfection. An almighty love and wisdom are at work for your uplifting. Therefore never be troubled by the time that is being taken, even if it seems very long, but when imperfections and obstructions arise, be apramatta, dhīra, have the utsāha, and leave God to do the rest. Time is necessary. It is a tremendous work that is being done in you, the alteration of your whole human nature into a divine nature, the crowding of centuries of evolution into a few years. You ought not to grudge the time. There are other paths that offer more immediate results or at any rate, by offering you some definite kriyā you can work at yourself, give your ahaṅkāra the satisfaction of feeling that you are doing something, so many more prāṇāyāmas today, so much longer a time for the āsana, so many more repetitions of the japa, so much done, so much definite progress marked. But once you have chosen this path, you must cleave to it. Those are human methods, not the way that the infinite Shakti works, which moves silently, sometimes imperceptibly to its goal, advances here, seems to pause there, then mightily and triumphantly reveals the grandiose thing that it has done. Artificial paths are like canals hewn by the intelligence of man; you travel easily, safely, surely, but from one given place to another. This path is the broad and trackless ocean by which you can travel widely to all parts of the world and are admitted to the freedom of the infinite. All that you need are the ship, the steering-wheel, the compass, the motive-power and a skilful captain. Your ship is the <a id="_idIndexMarker916"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Brahmavidya</span>, <a id="_idIndexMarker917"></a><span class="Index-Entry">faith</span> is your steering-wheel, self-surrender your compass, the motive-power is she who makes, directs and destroys the worlds at God’s command and God himself is your captain. But he has his own way of working and his own time for everything. Watch his way and wait for his time. Understand also the importance of accepting the Shastra and submitting to the Guru and do not do like the Europeans who insist on the freedom of the individual intellect to follow its own fancies and preferences which it calls reasonings, even before it is trained to discern or fit to reason. It is much the fashion nowadays to indulge in metaphysical discussions and philosophical subtleties about Maya and Adwaita and put them in the forefront, making them take the place of spiritual experience. Do not follow that fashion or confuse yourself and waste time on the way by questionings which will be amply and luminously answered when the divine knowledge of the vijñāna awakes in you. Metaphysical knowledge has its place, but as a handmaid to spiritual experience, showing it the way sometimes but much more dependent on it and living upon its bounty. By itself it is mere pāṇḍitya, a dry and barren thing and more often a stumbling-block than a help. Having accepted this path, follow its Shastra without unnecessary doubt and questioning, keeping the mind plastic to the light of the higher knowledge, gripping firmly what is experienced, waiting for light where things are dark to you, taking without pride what help you can from the living guides who have already trod the path, always patient, never hastening to narrow conclusions, but waiting for a more complete experience and a fuller light, relying on the Jagadguru who helps you from within.” (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">85</span>-<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">88</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
