<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_1_(withoutred)_-_Finalforpress-92</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_1_-withoutred-_-_Finalforpress-92" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-95" class="SubHead1">The <a id="_idIndexMarker361"></a>Spirit of Ancient India</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“The spirit of ancient India was aristocratic; its thought &amp; life moulded in the cast of a high &amp; proud nobility, an extreme &amp; lofty strenuousness. The very best in thought, the very best in action, the very best in character, the very best in literature &amp; art, the very best in religion and all the world well lost if only this very best might be attained, such was the spirit of ancient India. The <a id="_idIndexMarker362"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Brahmin</span> who devoted himself to poverty &amp; crushed down every desire in the wholehearted pursuit of knowledge &amp; religious self-discipline; the <a id="_idIndexMarker363"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Kshatriya</span> who, hurling his life joyously into the shock of chivalrous battle, held life, wife, children, possessions, ease, happiness as mere dust in the balance compared with honour &amp; the Kshatriya dharma, the preservation of self-respect, the protection of the weak, the noble fulfilment of princely duty; the <a id="_idIndexMarker364"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Vaishya</span>, who toiling all his life to amass riches, poured them out as soon as amassed in self-forgetting philanthropy holding himself the mere steward &amp; not the possessor of his wealth; the <a id="_idIndexMarker365"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Shudra</span> who gave himself up loyally to humble service, faithfully devoting his life to his <a id="_idIndexMarker366"></a><span class="Index-Entry">dharma</span>, however low, in preference to self-advancement &amp; ambition; these were the social ideals of the age.</p>
			<p class="body-text">The imagination of the Indian tended as has been well said to the grand &amp; enormous in thought and morals. The great formative images of legend &amp; literature to the likeness with which his childhood was encouraged to develop &amp; which his manhood most cherished were of an extreme &amp; lofty type. He saw Harischundra give up all that life held precious &amp; dear rather than that his lips should utter a lie or his plighted word be broken. He saw <a id="_idIndexMarker367"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Prahlada</span> buried under mountains, whelmed in the seas, tortured by the poison of a thousand venomous serpents, yet calmly true to his faith. He saw <a id="_idIndexMarker368"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Buddha</span> give up his royal state, wealth, luxury, wife, child &amp; parents so that mankind might be saved. He saw <a id="_idIndexMarker369"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Shivi</span> hew the flesh from his own limbs to save one small dove from the pursuing falcon; <a id="_idIndexMarker370"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Karna</span> tear his own body with a smile for the joy of making a gift; <a id="_idIndexMarker371"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Duryodhan</span> refuse to yield one inch of earth without noble resistance &amp; warlike struggle. He saw <a id="_idIndexMarker372"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Sita</span> face exile, hardship, privation &amp; danger in the eagerness of wifely love &amp; duty, <a id="_idIndexMarker373"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Savitri</span> rescue by her devotion her husband back from the visible grip of death. These were the classical Indian types. These were the ideals into the mould of which the minds of men &amp; women were trained to grow. The sense-conquering thought of the philosopher, the magnificent achievements of the hero, the stupendous renunciations of the Sannyasin, [the] unbounded liberality of the man of wealth, everything was exaggeration, extreme, filled with an epic inspiration, a world-defying enthusiasm.” (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">7</span>: <span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">1095</span>-<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">97</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
