<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_1_(withoutred)_-_Finalforpress-16</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_1_-withoutred-_-_Finalforpress-16" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-17" class="SubHead1">The <a id="_idIndexMarker107"></a>Brain of India</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“We have stated, as succinctly as is consistent with clearness, the main psychological principles on which the ancient Indians based their scheme of education. By the training of <a id="_idIndexMarker108"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Brahmacharya</span> they placed all the energy of which the system was capable and which could be spared from bodily functions, at the service of the brain. In this way they not only strengthened the <a id="_idIndexMarker109"></a><span class="Index-Entry">medh</span><span class="Index-Entry">ā</span> or grasping power, the <a id="_idIndexMarker110"></a><span class="Index-Entry">dh</span><span class="Index-Entry">ī</span> or subtlety and swiftness of thought conception, the <a id="_idIndexMarker111"></a><span class="Index-Entry">memory</span> and the creative intellectual force, making the triple force of memory, invention, <a id="_idIndexMarker112"></a><span class="Index-Entry">judgment</span> comprehensive and analytic, but they greatly enlarged the range, no less than the intensity, of the absorbing, storing and generative mental activities. Hence those astonishing feats of memory, various comprehension and versatility of creative work of which only a few extraordinary intellects have been capable in Occidental history, but which in ancient India were common and usual. Mr. <a id="_idIndexMarker113"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Gladstone</span> was considered to be the possessor of an astonishing memory because he could repeat the whole of Homer’s <a id="_idIndexMarker114"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Iliad</span>, beginning from any passage suggested to him and flowing on as long as required; but to a Brahmin of the old times this would have been a proof of a capacity neither unusual nor astonishing, but rather, petty and limited. The many-sidedness of an Eratosthenes or the range of a Herbert Spencer have created in Europe admiring or astonished comment; but the universality of the ordinary curriculum in ancient India was for every student and not for the exceptional few, and it implied, not a tasting of many subjects after the modern plan, but the thorough mastery of all. The original achievement of a <a id="_idIndexMarker115"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Kalidasa</span> accomplishing the highest in every line of poetic creation is so incredible to the <a id="_idIndexMarker116"></a><span class="Index-Entry">European mind</span> that it has been sought to cleave that mighty master of harmones into a committee of three. Yet it is paralleled by the accomplishment in philosophy of <a id="_idIndexMarker117"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Shankara</span> in a short life of thirty-two years and dwarfed by the universal mastery of all possible spiritual knowledge and experience of Sri <a id="_idIndexMarker118"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Ramakrishna</span> in our own era. These instances are not so common as the others, because pure creative genius is not common; but in Europe they are, with a single modern exception, non-existent. The highest creative intellects in Europe have achieved sovereignty by limitation, by striving to excel only in one field of a single intellectual province or at most in two; when they have been versatile it has been by sacrificing height to breadth. But in India it is the greatest who have been the most versatile and passed from one field of achievement to another without sacrificing an inch of their height or an iota of their creative intensity, easily, unfalteringly, with an assured mastery. This easy and unfailing illumination crowning the unfailing energy created by <a id="_idIndexMarker119"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Brahmacharya</span> was due to the discipline which developed <a id="_idIndexMarker120"></a><span class="Index-Entry">sattva</span> or inner illumination. This illumination makes the acquisition of knowledge and all other intellectual operations easy, spontaneous, swift, decisive and comparatively unfatiguing to body or brain. In these two things lies the secret of Aryan intellectual achievement. Brahmacharya and sattwic development created the brain of India: it was perfected by Yoga. </p>
			<p class="body-text">It is a common complaint that our students are too heavily burdened with many subjects and the studying of many books. The complaint is utterly true and yet it is equally true that the range of studies is pitifully narrow and the books read miserably few. What is the reason of this paradox, the justification of these two apparently contradictory truths? It is this, that we neglect the basis and proceed at once to a superstructure small in bulk, disproportionately heavy in comparison with that bulk, and built on a foundation too weak to bear even the paltry and meagre edifice of our imparted knowledge. The <a id="_idIndexMarker121"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Indian brain </span>is still in potentiality what it was; but it is being damaged, stunted and defaced. The greatness of its innate possibilities is hidden by the greatness of its surface deterioration.” (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">376</span>-<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">77</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
