<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_1_(withoutred)_-_Finalforpress-194</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_1_-withoutred-_-_Finalforpress-194" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-203" class="SubHead1">The <a id="_idIndexMarker983"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Vedas</span> </h2>
			<p class="body-text"><a id="_idTextAnchor011"></a>“The Vedas are the roots of Indian civilisation and the supreme authority in Indian religion. For three thousand years, by the calculation of European scholars, for a great deal more, in all probability, the faith of this nation, certainly one of the most profound, acute and intellectual in the world, has not left its hold on this cardinal point of belief. Its greatest and most rationalistic minds have never swerved from the national faith. Kapila held to it no less than Shankara. The two great revolted intellects, Buddha and Brihaspati, could not dethrone the Veda or destroy India’s spiritual allegiance. India by an inevitable law of her being casts out, sooner or later, everything that is not Vedic. The Dhammapada has become a Scripture for foreign peoples. Brihaspati’s strictures are only remembered as a curiosity of our intellectual history. Religious movements &amp; revolutions have come &amp; gone or left their mark but after all and through all the Veda remains to us our Rock of the Ages, our eternal foundation.</p>
			<p class="body-text"><a id="_idTextAnchor012"></a>Yet the most fundamental and important part of this imperishable Scripture, the actual hymns and mantras of the Sanhitas, has long been a sealed book to the Indian mind, learned or unlearned. The other Vedic books are of minor authority or a secondary formation. The <a id="_idIndexMarker984"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Brahmanas</span> are ritual, grammatical &amp; historical treatises on the traditions &amp; ceremonies of Vedic times whose only value – apart from interesting glimpses of ancient life &amp; Vedantic philosophy – lies in their attempt to fix and to interpret symbolically the ritual of <a id="_idIndexMarker985"></a>Vedic sacrifice. The <a id="_idIndexMarker986"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Upanishads</span>, mighty as they are, only aspire to bring out, arrange philosophically in the language of later thinking and crown with the supreme name of Brahman the eternal knowledge enshrined in the Vedas. Yet for some two thousand years at least no Indian has really understood the Vedas. Or if they have been understood, if Sayana holds for us their secret, the reverence of the Indian mind for them becomes a baseless superstition and the idea that the modern Indian religions are Vedic in their substance is convicted of egregious error. For the Vedas Sayana gives us are the mythology of the Adityas, Rudras, Maruts, Vasus, – but these gods of the Veda have long ceased to be worshipped, – or they are a collection of ritual &amp; sacrificial hymns, but the ritual is dead &amp; the sacrifices are no longer offered. </p>
			<p class="body-text"><a id="_idTextAnchor013"></a>Are we then to conclude that the reverence for the Vedas &amp; the belief in the continued authority of the Vedas is really no more than an ancient superstition or a tradition which has survived its truth? Those who know the working of the human mind, will be loth to hasten to that conclusion. Great masses of men, great nations, great civilisations have an instinct in these matters which seldom misleads them. In spite of forgetfulness, through every misstatement, surviving all cessation of precise understanding, something in them still remembers their origin and holds fast to the vital truth of their being. According to the Europeans, there is a historical truth at the basis of the old persistent tradition, but a historical truth only, a truth of origin, not of present actuality. The Vedas are the early roots of Indian religion, of Indian civilisation; but they have for a long time past ceased to be their present foundation or their intellectual substance. It is rather the Upanishads &amp; the Puranas that are the living Scriptures of mediaeval and modern Hinduism. But if, as we contend, the Upanishads &amp; the <a id="_idIndexMarker987"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Puranas</span> only give us in other language, later symbols, altered forms of thought the same religious truths that we find differently stated in the Rigveda, this shifting of the immediate point of derivation will make no real difference. The waters we drink are the same whether drawn at their clear mountain sources or on their banks in the anchorite’s forest or from ghats among the faery temples and fantastic domes of some sacred city. The Hindu’s belief remains to him unshaken.” (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">111</span>-<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">13</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
