<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_1_(withoutred)_-_Finalforpress-150</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_1_-withoutred-_-_Finalforpress-150" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-157" class="SubHead1">Man and the <a id="_idIndexMarker831"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Superman</span>*</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“<a id="_idIndexMarker832"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Man</span> is a transitional being, he is not final; for in him and high beyond him ascend the radiant degrees which climb to a divine supermanhood.</p>
			<p class="body-text">The step from man towards superman is the next approaching achievement in the earth’s evolution. There lies our destiny and the liberating key to our aspiring, but troubled and limited human existence – inevitable because it is at once the intention of the inner Spirit and the logic of Nature’s process.</p>
			<p class="body-text">The appearance of a human possibility in a material and animal world was the first glint of a coming divine Light, – the first far-off intimation of a godhead to be born out of Matter. The appearance of the superman in the human world will be the fulfilment of that distant shining promise.</p>
			<p class="body-text">The difference between man and superman will be the difference between mind and a consciousness as far beyond it as thinking mind is beyond the consciousness of plant and animal; the differentiating essence of man is mind, the differentiating essence of superman will be supermind or a <a id="_idIndexMarker833"></a><span class="Index-Entry">divine gnosis</span>.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Man is a mind imprisoned, obscured and circumscribed in a precarious and imperfect living but imperfectly conscious body. The superman will be a supramental spirit which will envelop and freely use a conscious body, plastic to spiritual forces. His physical frame will be a firm support and an adequate radiant instrument for the spirit’s divine play and work in Matter.” (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">157</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text">“Superman is not man climbed to his own natural zenith, not a superior degree of human greatness, knowledge, power, intelligence, will, character, genius, dynamic force, saintliness, love, purity or perfection. Supermind is something beyond mental man and his limits, a greater consciousness than the highest consciousness proper to human nature.” (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">158</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
