<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_1_(withoutred)_-_Finalforpress-47</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_1_-withoutred-_-_Finalforpress-47" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-49" class="SubHead1">A <a id="_idIndexMarker289"></a><span class="Index-Entry">God’s Labour</span>*</h2>
			<p class="body-text">I have gathered my dreams in a silver air </p>
			<p class="body-text">&#9;Between the gold and the blue</p>
			<p class="body-text">And wrapped them softly and left them there, </p>
			<p class="body-text">&#9;My jewelled dreams of you.</p>
			<p class="body-text">I had hoped to build a rainbow bridge </p>
			<p class="body-text">&#9;Marrying the soil to the sky</p>
			<p class="body-text">And sow in this dancing planet midge </p>
			<p class="body-text">&#9;The moods of infinity.</p>
			<p class="body-text">But too bright were our heavens, too far away, </p>
			<p class="body-text">&#9;Too frail their ethereal stuff;</p>
			<p class="body-text">Too splendid and sudden our light could not stay; </p>
			<p class="body-text">&#9;The roots were not deep enough.</p>
			<p class="body-text">He who would bring the heavens here </p>
			<p class="body-text">&#9;Must descend himself into clay</p>
			<p class="body-text">And the burden of earthly nature bear </p>
			<p class="body-text">&#9;And tread the dolorous way.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Coercing my godhead I have come down </p>
			<p class="body-text">&#9;Here on the sordid earth,</p>
			<p class="body-text">Ignorant, labouring, human grown </p>
			<p class="body-text">&#9;Twixt the gates of death and birth.</p>
			<p class="body-text">I have been digging deep and long </p>
			<p class="body-text">&#9;Mid a horror of filth and mire</p>
			<p class="body-text">A bed for the golden river’s song, </p>
			<p class="body-text">&#9;A home for the deathless fire.</p>
			<p class="body-text">I have laboured and suffered in </p>
			<p class="body-text">&#9;Matter’s night To bring the fire to man;</p>
			<p class="body-text">But the hate of hell and human spite</p>
			<p class="body-text">&#9;Are my meed since the world began.</p>
			<p class="body-text">For man’s mind is the dupe of his animal self; </p>
			<p class="body-text">&#9;Hoping its lusts to win,</p>
			<p class="body-text">He harbours within him a grisly </p>
			<p class="body-text">&#9;Elf Enamoured of sorrow and sin.</p>
			<p class="body-text">The grey Elf shudders from heaven’s flame </p>
			<p class="body-text">&#9;And from all things glad and pure;</p>
			<p class="body-text">Only by pleasure and passion and pain </p>
			<p class="body-text">&#9;His drama can endure.</p>
			<p class="body-text">All around is darkness and strife;</p>
			<p class="body-text">&#9;For the lamps that men call suns</p>
			<p class="body-text">Are but halfway gleams on this stumbling life </p>
			<p class="body-text">&#9;Cast by the Undying Ones.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Man lights his little torches of hope </p>
			<p class="body-text">&#9;That lead to a failing edge;</p>
			<p class="body-text">A fragment of Truth is his widest scope, </p>
			<p class="body-text">&#9;An inn his pilgrimage.</p>
			<p class="body-text">The Truth of truths men fear and deny,</p>
			<p class="body-text">&#9;The Light of lights they refuse;</p>
			<p class="body-text">To ignorant gods they lift their cry </p>
			<p class="body-text">&#9;Or a demon altar choose.</p>
			<p class="body-text">All that was found must again be sought, </p>
			<p class="body-text">&#9;Each enemy slain revives,</p>
			<p class="body-text">Each battle for ever is fought and refought </p>
			<p class="body-text">&#9;Through vistas of fruitless lives.</p>
			<p class="body-text">My gaping wounds are a thousand and one </p>
			<p class="body-text">&#9;And the Titan kings assail,</p>
			<p class="body-text">But I dare not rest till my task is done </p>
			<p class="body-text">&#9;And wrought the eternal will.</p>
			<p class="body-text">How they mock and sneer, both devils and men! </p>
			<p class="body-text">&#9;“Thy hope is Chimera’s head</p>
			<p class="body-text">Painting the sky with its fiery stain;</p>
			<p class="body-text">&#9;Thou shalt fall and thy work lie dead.</p>
			<p class="body-text">“Who art thou that babblest of heavenly ease </p>
			<p class="body-text">&#9;And joy and golden room</p>
			<p class="body-text">To us who are waifs on inconscient seas </p>
			<p class="body-text">&#9;And bound to life’s iron doom?</p>
			<p class="body-text">“This earth is ours, a field of Night </p>
			<p class="body-text">&#9;For our petty flickering fires.</p>
			<p class="body-text">How shall it brook the sacred Light </p>
			<p class="body-text">&#9;Or suffer a god’s desires?</p>
			<p class="body-text">“Come, let us slay him and end his course!</p>
			<p class="body-text">&#9;Then shall our hearts have release</p>
			<p class="body-text">From the burden and call of his glory and force </p>
			<p class="body-text">&#9;And the curb of his wide white peace.”</p>
			<p class="body-text">But the god is there in my mortal breast </p>
			<p class="body-text">&#9;Who wrestles with error and fate</p>
			<p class="body-text">And tramples a road through mire and waste </p>
			<p class="body-text">&#9;For the nameless Immaculate.</p>
			<p class="body-text">A voice cried, “Go where none have gone!</p>
			<p class="body-text">&#9;Dig deeper, deeper yet</p>
			<p class="body-text">Till thou reach the grim foundation stone </p>
			<p class="body-text">&#9;And knock at the keyless gate.”</p>
			<p class="body-text">I saw that a falsehood was planted deep </p>
			<p class="body-text">&#9;At the very root of things</p>
			<p class="body-text">Where the grey Sphinx guards God’s riddle sleep </p>
			<p class="body-text">&#9;On the Dragon’s outspread wings.</p>
			<p class="body-text">I left the surface gauds of mind </p>
			<p class="body-text">&#9;And life’s unsatisfied seas</p>
			<p class="body-text">And plunged through the body’s alleys blind </p>
			<p class="body-text">&#9;To the nether mysteries.</p>
			<p class="body-text">I have delved through the dumb </p>
			<p class="body-text">&#9;Earth’s dreadful heart </p>
			<p class="body-text">And heard her black mass’ bell.</p>
			<p class="body-text">&#9;I have seen the source whence her agonies part </p>
			<p class="body-text">And the inner reason of hell.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Above me the dragon murmurs moan </p>
			<p class="body-text">&#9;And the goblin voices flit;</p>
			<p class="body-text">I have pierced the Void where Thought was born, </p>
			<p class="body-text">&#9;I have walked in the bottomless pit.</p>
			<p class="body-text">On a desperate stair my feet have trod </p>
			<p class="body-text">&#9;Armoured with boundless peace,</p>
			<p class="body-text">Bringing the fires of the splendour of God </p>
			<p class="body-text">&#9;Into the human abyss.</p>
			<p class="body-text">He who I am was with me still; </p>
			<p class="body-text">&#9;All veils are breaking now.</p>
			<p class="body-text">I have heard His voice and borne His will </p>
			<p class="body-text">&#9;On my vast untroubled brow.</p>
			<p class="body-text">The gulf twixt the depths and the heights is bridged </p>
			<p class="body-text">&#9;And the golden waters pour</p>
			<p class="body-text">Down the sapphire mountain rainbow-ridged </p>
			<p class="body-text">&#9;And glimmer from shore to shore.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Heaven’s fire is lit in the breast of the earth </p>
			<p class="body-text">&#9;And the undying suns here burn;</p>
			<p class="body-text">Through a wonder cleft in the bounds of birth </p>
			<p class="body-text">&#9;The incarnate spirits yearn</p>
			<p class="body-text">Like flames to the kingdoms of Truth and Bliss: </p>
			<p class="body-text">&#9;Down a gold-red stairway wend</p>
			<p class="body-text">The radiant children of Paradise </p>
			<p class="body-text">&#9;Clarioning darkness’ end.</p>
			<p class="body-text">A little more and the new life’s doors </p>
			<p class="body-text">&#9;Shall be carved in silver light</p>
			<p class="body-text">With its aureate roof and mosaic floors </p>
			<p class="body-text">&#9;In a great world bare and bright.</p>
			<p class="body-text">I shall leave my dreams in their argent air, </p>
			<p class="body-text">&#9;For in a raiment of gold and blue</p>
			<p class="body-text">There shall move on the earth embodied and fair </p>
			<p class="body-text">&#9;The living truth of you. (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">534</span>-<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">38</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
