<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_1_(withoutred)_-_Finalforpress-68</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_1_-withoutred-_-_Finalforpress-68" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-70" class="SubHead1">The End?*</h2>
			<p class="body-text">Is this the end of all that we have been,</p>
			<p class="body-text">&#9;And all we did or dreamed, – </p>
			<p class="body-text">A name unremembered and a form undone, – </p>
			<p class="body-text">&#9;&#9;Is this the end?</p>
			<p class="body-text">A body rotting under a slab of stone</p>
			<p class="body-text">&#9;Or turned to ash in fire,</p>
			<p class="body-text">A mind dissolved, lost its forgotten thoughts, – </p>
			<p class="body-text">&#9;&#9;Is this the end?</p>
			<p class="body-text">Our little hours that were and are no more,</p>
			<p class="body-text">&#9;Our passions once so high</p>
			<p class="body-text">Dying mocked by the still earth and calm sunshine, – </p>
			<p class="body-text">&#9;&#9;Is this the end?</p>
			<p class="body-text">Our yearnings for the human Godward climb</p>
			<p class="body-text">&#9;Passing to other hearts</p>
			<p class="body-text">Deceived, while sinks towards death and hell the world, – </p>
			<p class="body-text">&#9;&#9;Is this the end?</p>
			<p class="body-text">Fallen is the harp; shattered it lies and mute;</p>
			<p class="body-text">&#9;Is the unseen player dead?</p>
			<p class="body-text">Because the tree is felled where the bird sang,</p>
			<p class="body-text">&#9;&#9;Must the song too hush?</p>
			<p class="body-text">One in the mind who planned and willed and thought,</p>
			<p class="body-text">&#9;Worked to reshape earth’s fate,</p>
			<p class="body-text">One in the heart who loved and yearned and hoped,</p>
			<p class="body-text">&#9;&#9;Does he too end?</p>
			<p class="body-text">The Immortal in the mortal is his Name;</p>
			<p class="body-text">&#9;An artist Godhead here</p>
			<p class="body-text">Ever remoulds himself in diviner shapes,</p>
			<p class="body-text">&#9;&#9;Unwilling to cease</p>
			<p class="body-text">Till all is done for which the stars were made,</p>
			<p class="body-text">&#9;Till the heart discovers God</p>
			<p class="body-text">And soul knows itself. And even then</p>
			<p class="body-text">&#9;&#9;There is no end. (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">643</span>-<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">44</span>)</p>
		</div>
		<div class="_idGenObjectLayout-1">
			<div id="_idContainer011">
			</div>
		</div>
		<div id="_idContainer012" class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h1 id="_idParaDest-71" class="Headline">Volume 3-4: Collected Plays &amp; Stories<br />Volume 5: Translations<br />Volumes 6-7: Bande Mataram</h1>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
