<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_1_(withoutred)_-_Finalforpress-18</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_1_-withoutred-_-_Finalforpress-18" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-19" class="SubHead1">The <a id="_idIndexMarker124"></a>Powers of the Mind*</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“THE INSTRUMENT of the educationist is the mind or <a id="_idIndexMarker125"></a><span class="Index-Entry">anta</span><span class="Index-Entry">ḥ</span><span class="Index-Entry">kara</span><span class="Index-Entry">ṇ</span><span class="Index-Entry">a</span>, which consists of four layers. The reservoir of past mental impressions, the <a id="_idIndexMarker126"></a><span class="Index-Entry">citta</span> or storehouse of <a id="_idIndexMarker127"></a>memory, which must be distinguished from the specific act of memory, is the foundation on which all the other layers stand. All experience lies within us as passive or potential memory; active memory selects and takes what it requires from that storehouse. But the active memory is like a man searching among a great mass of locked-up material: sometimes he cannot find what he wants; often in his rapid search he stumbles across many things for which he has no immediate need; often too he blunders and thinks he has found the real thing when it is something else, irrelevant if not valueless, on which he has laid his hand. The passive memory or citta needs no training, it is automatic and naturally sufficient to its task; there is not the slightest object of knowledge coming within its field which is not secured, placed and faultlessly preserved in that admirable receptacle. It is the active memory, a higher but less perfectly developed function, which is in need of improvement.</p>
			<p class="body-text">The second layer is the mind proper or <a id="_idIndexMarker128"></a><span class="Index-Entry">manas</span>, the sixth sense of our <a id="_idIndexMarker129"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Indian psychology</span>, in which all the others are gathered up. The <a id="_idIndexMarker130"></a>function of the mind is to receive the images of things translated into sight, sound, smell, taste and touch by the five senses and translate these again into thought-sensations. It receives also images of its own direct grasping and forms them into mental impressions. These sensations and impressions are the material of thought, not thought itself; but it is exceedingly important that thought should work on sufficient and perfect material. It is therefore the first business of the educationist to develop in the child the right use of the six senses, to see that they are not stunted or injured by disuse, but trained by the child himself under the teacher’s direction to that perfect accuracy and keen subtle sensitiveness of which they are capable. In addition, whatever assistance can be gained by the organs of action, should be thoroughly employed. The hand, for instance, should be trained to reproduce what the eye sees and the mind senses. The speech should be trained to a perfect expression of the knowledge which the whole <a id="_idIndexMarker131"></a><span class="Index-Entry">anta</span><span class="Index-Entry">ḥ</span><span class="Index-Entry">kara</span><span class="Index-Entry">ṇ</span><span class="Index-Entry">a</span> possesses.</p>
			<p class="body-text">The third layer is the intellect or <a id="_idIndexMarker132"></a><span class="Index-Entry">buddhi</span>, which is the real instrument of thought and that which orders and disposes of the knowledge acquired by the other parts of the machine. For the purposes of the educationist this is infinitely the most important of the three I have named. The intellect is an organ composed of several groups of functions, divisible into two important classes, the functions and faculties of the right hand and the functions and faculties of the left hand. The faculties of the right hand are comprehensive, creative and synthetic; the faculties of the left hand critical and analytic. To the right hand belong <a id="_idIndexMarker133"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Judgment</span>, <a id="_idIndexMarker134"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Imagination</span>, <a id="_idIndexMarker135"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Memory</span>, <a id="_idIndexMarker136"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Observation</span>; to the left hand Comparison and <a id="_idIndexMarker137"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Reasoning</span>. The critical faculties distinguish, compare, classify, generalise, deduce, infer, conclude; they are the component parts of the logical reason. The righthand faculties comprehend, command, judge in their own right, grasp, hold and manipulate. The right-hand mind is the master of knowledge, the left-hand its servant. The left hand touches only the body of knowledge, the right hand penetrates its soul. The left hand limits itself to ascertained truth, the right hand grasps that which is still elusive or unascertained. Both are essential to the completeness of the <a id="_idIndexMarker138"></a><span class="Index-Entry">human reason</span>. These important functions of the machine have all to be raised to their highest and finest working-power, if the education of the child is not to be imperfect and one-sided.</p>
			<p class="body-text">There is a fourth layer of faculty which, not as yet entirely developed in man, is attaining gradually to a wider development and more perfect evolution. The powers peculiar to this highest stratum of knowledge are chiefly known to us from the phenomena of genius, – sovereign <a id="_idIndexMarker139"></a>discernment, <a id="_idIndexMarker140"></a>intuitive perception of truth, plenary <a id="_idIndexMarker141"></a>inspiration of speech, <a id="_idIndexMarker142"></a>direct vision of knowledge to an extent often amounting to <a id="_idIndexMarker143"></a><span class="Index-Entry">revelation</span>, making a man a prophet of truth. These powers are rare in their higher development, though many possess them imperfectly or by flashes. They are still greatly distrusted by the critical reason of mankind because of the admixture of error, caprice and a biased imagination which obstructs and distorts their perfect workings. Yet it is clear that humanity could not have advanced to its present stage if it had not been for the help of these faculties, and it is a question with which educationists have not yet grappled, what is to be done with this mighty and baffling element, the element of genius in the pupil. The mere instructor does his best to discourage and stifle genius, the more liberal teacher welcomes it. Faculties so important to humanity cannot be left out of our consideration.It is foolish to neglect them, it is criminal to discourage them. Their imperfect development must be perfected, the admixture of error, caprice and biased fancifulness must be carefully and wisely removed. But the teacher cannot do it; he would eradicate the good corn as well as the tares if he interfered. Here, as in all educational operations, he can only put the growing soul into the way of its own perfection.” (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">386</span>-<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">88</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
