<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_1_(withoutred)_-_Finalforpress-174</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_1_-withoutred-_-_Finalforpress-174" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-182" class="SubHead1">Aphorisms: Delight of Being*</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“The universe is not merely a mathematical formula for working out the relation of certain mental abstractions called numbers and principles to arrive in the end at a zero or a void unit, neither is it merely a physical operation embodying certain equations of forces. It is the delight of a Self-lover, the play of a Child, the endless self-multiplication of a Poet intoxicated with the rapture of His own power of endless creation.</p>
			<p class="body-text">We may speak of the Supreme as if He were a mathematician working out a cosmic sum in numbers or a thinker resolving by experiment a problem in relations of principles and the balance of forces: but also we should speak of Him as if He were a lover, a musician of universal and particular harmonies, a child, a poet. The side of thought is not enough; the side of delight too must be entirely grasped: Ideas, Forces, Existences, Principles are hollow moulds unless they are filled with the breath of God’s delight.</p>
			<p class="body-text">These things are images, but all is an image. Abstractions give us the pure conception of God’s truths; images give us their living reality.</p>
			<p class="body-text">If Idea embracing Force begot the worlds, Delight of Being begot the Idea. Because the Infinite conceived an innumerable delight in itself, therefore worlds and universes came into existence.” (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">201</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text">“Delight of being is not limited in Time; it is without end or beginning. God comes out from one form of things only to enter into another.</p>
			<p class="body-text">What is God after all? An eternal child playing an eternal game in an eternal garden.” (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">202</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
