<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_1_(withoutred)_-_Finalforpress-49</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_1_-withoutred-_-_Finalforpress-49" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-51" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idIndexMarker291"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Rose of God</span>*</h2>
			<p class="body-text">Rose of God, vermilion stain on the sapphires of heaven,</p>
			<p class="body-text">Rose of Bliss, fire-sweet, seven-tinged with the ecstasies seven!</p>
			<p class="body-text">Leap up in our heart of humanhood, O miracle, O flame,</p>
			<p class="body-text">Passion-flower of the Nameless, bud of the mystical Name.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Rose of God, great wisdom-bloom on the summits of being,</p>
			<p class="body-text">Rose of Light, immaculate core of the ultimate seeing!</p>
			<p class="body-text">Live in the mind of our earthhood; O golden Mystery, flower,</p>
			<p class="body-text">Sun on the head of the Timeless, guest of the marvellous Hour.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Rose of God, damask force of Infinity, red icon of might,</p>
			<p class="body-text">Rose of Power with thy diamond halo piercing the night!</p>
			<p class="body-text">Ablaze in the will of the mortal, design the wonder of thy plan,</p>
			<p class="body-text">Image of Immortality, outbreak of the Godhead in man.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Rose of God, smitten purple with the incarnate divine Desire,</p>
			<p class="body-text">Rose of Life, crowded with petals, colour’s lyre!</p>
			<p class="body-text">Transform the body of the mortal like a sweet and magical</p>
			<p class="body-text">rhyme;</p>
			<p class="body-text">Bridge our earthhood and heavenhood, make deathless the</p>
			<p class="body-text">children of Time.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Rose of God like a blush of rapture on Eternity’s face,</p>
			<p class="body-text">Rose of Love, ruby depth of all being, fire-passion of Grace!</p>
			<p class="body-text">Arise from the heart of the yearning that sobs in Nature’s abyss:</p>
			<p class="body-text">Make earth the home of the Wonderful and life Beatitude’s kiss. (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">564</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
