<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_1_(withoutred)_-_Finalforpress-10</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_1_-withoutred-_-_Finalforpress-10" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-11" class="SubHead1">The <a id="_idIndexMarker038"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Hindu Mind</span> and Temperament</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“The Hindu has been always decried as a dreamer &amp; mystic. There is truth in the charge but also a singular inaccuracy. The Hindu mind is in one sense the most concrete in the world; it seeks after abstractions, but is not satisfied with them so long as they remain abstractions. But to make the objects of this world concrete, to realise the things that are visited by sun &amp; rain or are, at their most ethereal, sublimated figures of fine matter, that is comparatively easy, but the Hindu is not contented till he has seized things behind the sunlight also as concrete realities. He is passionate for the infinite, the unseen, the spiritual, but he will not rest satisfied with conceiving them, he insists on mapping the infinite, on seeing the unseen, on visualising the spiritual. The <a id="_idIndexMarker039"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Celt</span> throws his imagination into the infinite and is rewarded with beautiful phantoms out of which he evolves a pale, mystic and intangible poetry; the Hindu sends his heart &amp; his intellect &amp; eventually his whole being after his imagination and for his reward he has seen God and interpreted existence. It is this double aspect of <a id="_idIndexMarker040"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Hindu temperament</span>, extreme spirituality successfully attempting to work in harmony with extreme materialism, which is the secret of our religion, our life &amp; our literature, our civilisation. On the one side we spiritualise the material out of all but a phenomenal &amp; illusory existence, on the other we materialise the spiritual in the most definite &amp; realistic forms; this is the secret of the high philosophic idealism which to the less capable European mind seems so impossible an intellectual atmosphere and of the prolific idolatry which to the dogmatic &amp; formalising Christian reason seems so gross. In any other race-temperament this mental division would have split into two broadly disparate &amp; opposing types whose action, reaction &amp; attempts at compromise would have comprised the history of thought. In the myriad minded &amp; undogmatic Hindu it worked not towards mental division but as the first discord which prepares for a consistent harmony; the best &amp; most characteristic <a id="_idIndexMarker041"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Hindu thought</span> regards either tendency as essential to the perfect &amp; subtle comprehension of existence; they are considered the positive &amp; negative sides of one truth, &amp; must both be grasped if we are not to rest in a half light. Hence the entire tolerance of the <a id="_idIndexMarker042"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Hindu religion</span> to all intellectual attitudes except sheer libertinism; hence also the marvellous perfection of graded thought-attitudes in which the Hindu mind travels between the sheer negative &amp; the sheer positive and yet sees in them only a ladder of progressive &amp; closely related steps rising through relative conceptions to one final &amp; absolute knowledge.</p>
			<p class="body-text">The intellectual temperament of a people determines the main character-stamp of its poetry. There is therefore no considerable poet in Sanscrit who has not the twofold impression, (spiritual &amp; romantic in aim, our poetry is realistic in method), who does not keep his feet on the ground even while his eyes are with the clouds. The soaring lark who loses himself in light, the ineffectual angel beating his luminous wings in the void are not denizens of the Hindu plane of temperament. Hence the expectant critic will search ancient Hindu literature in vain for the poetry of mysticism; that is only to be found in recent Bengali poetry which has felt the influence of English models. The <a id="_idIndexMarker043"></a><span class="Index-Entry">old Sanscrit</span> <a id="_idIndexMarker044"></a><span class="Index-Entry">poetry</span> was never satisfied unless it could show colour, energy &amp; definiteness, &amp; these are things incompatible with true mysticism. Even the <a id="_idIndexMarker045"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Upanishads</span> which declare the phenomenal world to be unreal, yet have a rigidly practical aim and labour in every line to make the indefinite definite &amp; the abstract concrete. But of all our great poets <a id="_idIndexMarker046"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Kalidasa</span> best exemplifies this twynatured <a id="_idIndexMarker047"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Hindu temperament</span> under the conditions of supreme artistic beauty &amp; harmony. Being the most variously learnéd of Hindu poets he draws into his net all our <a id="_idIndexMarker048"></a><span class="Index-Entry">traditions</span>, ideas, <a id="_idIndexMarker049"></a><span class="Index-Entry">myths</span>, imaginations, <a id="_idIndexMarker050"></a><span class="Index-Entry">allegories</span>; the grotesque &amp; the trivial as well as the sublime or lovely; but touching them with his magic wand teaches them to live together in the harmonising atmosphere of his poetic temperament; under his touch the grotesque becomes strange, wild &amp; romantic; the trivial refines into a dainty &amp; gracious slightness; the sublime yields to the law of romance, acquires a mighty grace, a strong sweetness; and what was merely lovely attains power, energy &amp; brilliant colour. His creations in fact live in a peculiar light, which is not the light that never was on sea or land but rather our ordinary sunshine recognisable though strangely &amp; beautifully altered. The alteration is not real; rather our vision is affected by the recognition of something concealed by the sunbeams &amp; yet the cause of the sunbeams; but it is plain human sunlight we see always. May we not say it is that luminousness behind the veil of this sunlight which is the heaven of <a id="_idIndexMarker051"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Hindu imagination</span> &amp; in all Hindu work shines through it without overpowering it? <a id="_idIndexMarker052"></a>Hindu poetry is the only Paradise in which the lion can lie down with the lamb.” (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">212</span>-<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">14</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
