<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_1_(withoutred)_-_Finalforpress-170</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_1_-withoutred-_-_Finalforpress-170" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-178" class="SubHead1"><a id="_idIndexMarker918"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Maya</span></h2>
			<p class="body-text">“God is one but he is not bounded by his unity. We see him here as one who is always manifesting as many, not because he cannot help it, but because he so wills, and outside manifestation he is anirdeśyam, indefinable, and cannot be described as either one or many. That is what the Upanishads and other sacred books consistently teach; he is <a id="_idIndexMarker919"></a><span class="Index-Entry">ekamev</span><span class="Index-Entry">ā</span><span class="Index-Entry">dvit</span><span class="Index-Entry">ī</span><span class="Index-Entry">yam</span>, One and there is no other, but also and consequently he is “this man, yonder woman, that blue-winged bird, this scarlet-eyed.” He is sānta, he is ananta; the Jiva is he. “I am the aśvattha tree,” says Sri <a id="_idIndexMarker920"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Krishna</span> in the Gita, “I am death, I am Agni Vaishwanara, I am the heat that digests food, I am Vyasa, I am Vasudeva, I am Arjuna.” All that is the play of his caitanya in his infinite being, his manifestations, and therefore all are real. Maya means nothing more than the freedom of Brahman from the circumstances through which he expresses himself. He is in no way limited by that which we see or think about him. That is the Maya from which we must escape, the Maya of ignorance which takes things as separately existent and not God, not caitanya, the illimitable for the really limited, the free for the bound. Do you remember the story of Sri Krishna and the Gopis, how Narada found him differently occupied in each house to which he went, present to each Gopi in a different body, yet always the same Sri Krishna? Apart from the devotional meaning of the story, which you know, it is a good image of his <a id="_idIndexMarker921"></a><span class="Index-Entry">World-Lila</span>. He is sarva, everyone, each Purusha with his apparently different Prakriti and action is he, and yet at the same time he is the <a id="_idIndexMarker922"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Purushottama</span> who is with <a id="_idIndexMarker923"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Radha</span>, the <a id="_idIndexMarker924"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Para Prakriti</span>, and can withdraw all these into himself when he wills and put them out again when he wills. From one point of view they are one with him, from another one yet different, from yet another always different because they always exist, latent in him or expressed at his pleasure. There is no profit in disputing about these standpoints. Wait until you see God and know yourself and him and then debate and discussion will be unnecessary.” (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">89</span>-<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">90</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
