<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_1_(withoutred)_-_Finalforpress-124</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_1_-withoutred-_-_Finalforpress-124" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-130" class="SubHead1">Notes on <a id="_idIndexMarker611"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Prophetic Visions</span>, 1929</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">1</span>. Some ten days before August <span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">15</span>th <span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">1929</span>, Venkataraman at soup sees himself in a vision falling from branch to branch of a tree. Half an hour afterwards, having returned from the soup to his rooms (Mudaliar’s house near treasury) for flowers to bring to the Mother, he climbs a big tree of champak, misses his hold, falls from branch to branch on to the ground and is unable to move for a few days and cannot come to the house for the <span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">15</span>th celebration. Prevision.</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">2</span>. A lottery is arranged for the distribution among the sadhaks of articles of small value – in order to see how the forces work on different people. Before the distribution of tickets Amrita sees in vision the number <span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">61</span>; he gets actually the number <span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">62</span>. On inquiry he learned that by mistake two tickets had been distributed to one sadhak, otherwise he would have received No <span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">61</span>. Telepathic vision of the thing that was about to happen, – not prevision.</p>
			<p class="body-text"><span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">3</span>. On Monday, <span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">23</span>d February <span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">1929</span> at soup, the Mother sees among a number of other visions the son of Madame Gaebelé with a broken arm bandaged, but attaches no importance to it. On Thursday she meets Madame Gaebelé and is told that her son broke his wrist at football on Monday and it was put in plaster before the time of the vision. At the moment she was praying earnestly that the Mother might give her help for the arm to cure. Silent communication from the mind of another awaking telepathic vision.” (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">1358</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
