<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_1_(withoutred)_-_Finalforpress-19</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_1_-withoutred-_-_Finalforpress-19" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-20" class="SubHead1">The <a id="_idIndexMarker144"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Moral Nature</span>*</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“In the economy of man the mental nature rests upon the moral, and the education of the intellect divorced from the perfection of the moral and emotional nature is injurious to human progress. Yet, while it is easy to arrange some kind of curriculum or syllabus which will do well enough for the training of the mind, it has not yet been found possible to provide under modern conditions a suitable moral training for the school and college. The attempt to make boys moral and religious by the teaching of moral and religious text-books is a vanity and a delusion, precisely because the heart is not the mind and to instruct the mind does not necessarily improve the heart. It would be an error to say that it has no effect. It throws certain seeds of thought into the <a id="_idIndexMarker145"></a><span class="Index-Entry">anta</span><span class="Index-Entry">ḥ</span><span class="Index-Entry">kara</span><span class="Index-Entry">ṇ</span><span class="Index-Entry">a</span> and, if these thoughts become habitual, they influence the conduct. But the danger of moral text-books is that they make the thinking of high things mechanical and artificial, and whatever is mechanical and artificial is inoperative for good.</p>
			<p class="body-text">There are three things which are of the utmost importance in dealing with a man’s moral nature, the emotions, the <a id="_idIndexMarker146"></a><span class="Index-Entry">sa</span><span class="Index-Entry">ṁ</span><span class="Index-Entry">sk</span><span class="Index-Entry">ā</span><span class="Index-Entry">ras</span> or formed habits and associations, and the <a id="_idIndexMarker147"></a><span class="Index-Entry">svabh</span><span class="Index-Entry">ā</span><span class="Index-Entry">va</span> or nature. The only way for him to train himself morally is to habituate himself to the right emotions, the noblest associations, the best mental, emotional and physical habits and the following out in right action of the fundamental impulses of his essential nature. You can impose a certain discipline on children, dress them into a certain mould, lash them into a desired path, but unless you can get their hearts and natures on your side, the conformity to this imposed rule becomes a hypocritical and heartless, a conventional, often a cowardly compliance. This is what is done in Europe, and it leads to that remarkable phenomenon known as the <a id="_idIndexMarker148"></a>sowing of wild oats as soon as the yoke of discipline at school and at home is removed, and to the social hypocrisy which is so large a feature of European life. Only what the man admires and accepts, becomes part of himself; the rest is a mask. He conforms to the discipline of society as he conformed to the moral routine of home and school, but considers himself at liberty to guide his real life, inner and private, according to his own likings and passions. On the other hand, to neglect moral and religious education altogether is to corrupt the race....</p>
			<p class="body-text">The first rule of <a id="_idIndexMarker149"></a><span class="Index-Entry">moral training</span> is to suggest and invite, not command or impose. The best method of suggestion is by personal <a id="_idIndexMarker150"></a>example, daily converse and the books read from day to day. These books should contain, for the younger student, the lofty examples of the past given, not as moral lessons, but as things of supreme human interest, and, for the elder student, the great thoughts of great souls, the passages of literature which set fire to the highest emotions and prompt the highest ideals and aspirations, the records of history and biography which exemplify the living of those great thoughts, noble emotions and aspiring ideals. This is a kind of good company, <a id="_idIndexMarker151"></a><span class="Index-Entry">satsa</span><span class="Index-Entry">ṅ</span><span class="Index-Entry">ga</span>, which can seldom fail to have effect, so long as sententious sermonising is avoided, and becomes of the highest effect if the personal life of the teacher is itself moulded by the great things he places before his pupils. It cannot, however, have full force unless the young life is given an opportunity, within its limited sphere, of embodying in action the moral impulses which rise within it. The thirst of knowledge, the self-devotion, the purity, the renunciation of the <a id="_idIndexMarker152"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Brahmin</span>, – the courage, ardour, honour, nobility, chivalry, patriotism of the <a id="_idIndexMarker153"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Kshatriya</span>, – the beneficence, skill, industry, generous enterprise and large open-handedness of the <a id="_idIndexMarker154"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Vaishya</span>, – the self-effacement and loving service of the <a id="_idIndexMarker155"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Shudra</span>, – these are the qualities of the <a id="_idIndexMarker156"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Aryan</span>. They constitute the moral temper we desire in our young men, in the whole nation. But how can we get them if we do not give opportunities to the young to train themselves in the Aryan tradition, to form by the practice and familiarity of childhood and boyhood the stuff of which their adult lives must be made?” (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">389</span>-<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">91</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
