<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_1_(withoutred)_-_Finalforpress-233</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_1_-withoutred-_-_Finalforpress-233" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-246" class="SubHead1">The <a id="_idIndexMarker1119"></a>Central Truth of Veda and Upanishad</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“It is knowledge that loosens our bonds, that snaps asunder the toils of sense &amp; dispels the force of the world-enchantment. In order to be free, we must pass from intuition to illumination. We must get the direct perception of the knowledge of which intuitive reason is the memory. For within us there are unawakened folds in folds of conscious experience which we have yet to set in action in order to fulfil our nature’s possibilities. In these inner realms we are sushupta, asleep; but the whole movement of humanity is towards the awakening of these centres. <a id="_idIndexMarker1120"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Science</span> is in error when it imagines that man is from all time &amp; to all time a rational animal &amp; the reason the end &amp; summit of his evolution. Man did not begin with reason, neither will he end with it. There are faculties within us which transcend reason and are asleep to our waking consciousness, just as life is asleep in the metal, consciousness in the tree, reason in the animal. Our evolution is not over, we have not completed even half of the great journey. And if now we are striving to purify the intellect &amp; to carry reason to its utmost capacities, it is in order that we may discourage the lower movements of passion and desire, self-interest and prejudice and dogmatic intolerance which stand in the way of the illumination. When the intellectual buddhi is pure by vichara &amp; abhyasa of these things, then it becomes ready to rise up out of the mind into the higher levels of consciousness and there lose itself in a much mightier movement which because of its greatness &amp; perfection is called in the Rigveda mahas and in the Vedanta vijnana. This is what [is] meant in the Veda by Saraswati awakening the great ocean. Pavaka nah saraswati maho arnash chetayati. This is the justification of the demand in our own Yoga that desire shall be expelled, the mind stilled, the very play of reason &amp; imagination silenced before a man shall attain to knowledge, – as the Gita puts it, na kinchid api chintayet.</p>
			<p class="body-text">The illumination of the vijnana, when it is complete, shows us not a collective material unity, a sum of physical units, but a real unity. It reveals to us Space, Time and the chain of apparent circumstance to be merely conventions &amp; symbols seen in His own being by One Seer and dependent purely on a greater transcendental existence of which they are not separate realities &amp; divisions but the manifold expressions of its single Truth. It is this knowledge that gives us freedom. We escape from the enchanted forest, we know once more the world outside this petty world, see the boundless heavens above &amp; breast the wide &amp; circumambient air of our infinite existence. The first necessity is to know the One, to be in possession of the divine Existence; afterwards we can have all the knowledge, joy &amp; power for action that is intended for our souls, – for He being known all is known, tasmin vijnate sarvam vijnatam, not at once by any miraculous revelation, but by a progressive illumination or rather an application of the single necessary illumination to God’s multiplicity in manifestation, by the movement of the mahat &amp; the bhuma, not working from petty details to the whole, but from the knowledge of the one to the knowledge of relation &amp; circumstance, by a process of knowledge that is sovereign &amp; free, not painful, struggling &amp; bound. This is the central truth of Veda &amp; Upanishad &amp; the process by which they have been revealed to men.” (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">428</span>-<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">29</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text">“This free &amp; great movement of illumination descending from above to us below and not like our thought here which climbs painfully up the mountain peaks of thought only to find at the summit that it is yet far removed from the skies to which it aspires, this winged &amp; mighty descent of Truth is what we call <a id="_idIndexMarker1121"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Sruti</span> or <a id="_idIndexMarker1122"></a><span class="Index-Entry">revelation</span>. There are three words which are used of illumined thought, drishti, sruti &amp; <a id="_idIndexMarker1123"></a>smriti, sight, hearing and remembrance. The direct vision or experience of a truth or the thought-substance of a truth is called drishti, and because they had that direct vision or experience, that pratyaksha not of the senses, but of the liberated soul, the <a id="_idIndexMarker1124"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Rishis</span> are called drashtas. But besides the truth and its artha or thought-substance in which it is represented to the mind, there is the <a id="_idIndexMarker1125"></a><span class="Index-Entry">vak</span> or sound symbol, the inevitable word in which the truth is naturally enshrined &amp; revealed &amp; not as in ordinary speech half concealed or only suggested. The revelation of the vak is sruti. The revealed word is also revelatory and whoever has taken it into his soul, though the mind may not understand it, has the Truth ready prepared in the higher or sushupta reaches of his being from whence it must inevitably descend at a future date or in another life to his lower &amp; darkened consciousness in order to liberate &amp; illumine. It is this psychological truth which is the foundation of the Hindu’s trust in the Name of God, the vibrations of the mantra and the sound of the Veda. For the vak carries, in the right state of the soul, an illumination with it of the truth which it holds, an inspiration of its force of satyam which is less than drishti but must in the end lead to <a id="_idIndexMarker1126"></a><span class="Index-Entry">drishti</span>. A still more indirect action of the vijnana is smriti; when the truth is presented to the soul and its truth immediately &amp; directly recognised by a movement resembling memory – a perception that this was always true and already known to the higher consciousness. It is smriti that is nearest to intellect action and forms the link between vijnanam &amp; prajnanam, ideal thought &amp; intellectual thought, by leading to the higher forms of intellectual activity, such as intuitive reason, inspiration, insight &amp; prophetic revelation, the equipment of the man of genius.” (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">429</span>-<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">30</span>)</p>
		</div>
		<div class="_idGenObjectLayout-1">
			<div id="_idContainer033">
			</div>
		</div>
		<div id="_idContainer034" class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h1 id="_idParaDest-247" class="Headline">Volume 19<br />Essays on the Gita</h1>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
