<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_1_(withoutred)_-_Finalforpress-177</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_1_-withoutred-_-_Finalforpress-177" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-185" class="SubHead1">Thoughts and Glimpses*</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“Those who are poor, ignorant, ill-born or ill-bred are not the common herd; the common herd are all who are satisfied with pettiness and an average humanity.” (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">208</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text">“Wherefore God hammers so fiercely at his world, tramples and kneads it like dough, casts it so often into the blood-bath and the red hell-heat of the furnace? Because humanity in the mass is still a hard, crude and vile ore which will not otherwise be smelted and shaped: as is his material, so is his method. Let it help to transmute itself into nobler and purer metal, his ways with it will be gentler and sweeter, much loftier and fairer its uses.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Wherefore he selected or made such a material, when he had all infinite possibility to choose from? Because of his divine Idea which saw before it not only beauty and sweetness and purity, but also force and will and greatness. Despise not force, nor hate it for the ugliness of some of its faces, nor think that love only is God. All perfect perfection must have something in it of the stuff of the hero and even of the Titan. But the greatest force is born out of the greatest difficulty.</p>
			<p class="body-text">* * *</p>
			<p class="body-text">All would change if man could once consent to be spiritualised; but his nature mental and vital and physical is rebellious to the higher law. He loves his imperfections.” (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">210</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text">“The world knows three kinds of <a id="_idIndexMarker935"></a><span class="Index-Entry">revolution</span>. The material has strong results, the moral and intellectual are infinitely larger in their scope and richer in their fruits, but the spiritual are the great sowings.</p>
			<p class="body-text">If the triple change could coincide in a perfect correspondence, a faultless work would be done; but the mind and body of mankind cannot hold perfectly a strong spiritual inrush: most is spilt, much of the rest is corrupted. Many intellectual and physical upturnings of our soil are needed to work out a little result from a large spiritual sowing.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Each <a id="_idIndexMarker936"></a><span class="Index-Entry">religion</span> has helped mankind. <a id="_idIndexMarker937"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Paganism</span> increased in man the light of beauty, the largeness and height of his life, his aim at a many-sided perfection; <a id="_idIndexMarker938"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Christianity</span> gave him some vision of divine love and charity; <a id="_idIndexMarker939"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Buddhism</span> has shown him a noble way to be wiser, gentler, purer, <a id="_idIndexMarker940"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Judaism</span> and <a id="_idIndexMarker941"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Islam</span> how to be religiously faithful in action and zealously devoted to God; Hinduism has opened to him the largest and profoundest spiritual possibilities. A great thing would be done if all these God-visions could embrace and cast themselves into each other; but intellectual dogma and cult egoism stand in the way. </p>
			<p class="body-text">All religions have saved a number of souls, but none yet has been able to spiritualise mankind. For that there is needed not cult and creed, but a sustained and all-comprehending effort at spiritual self-evolution.</p>
			<p class="body-text">The changes we see in the world today are intellectual, moral, physical in their ideal and intention: the spiritual revolution waits for its hour and throws up meanwhile its waves here and there. Until it comes the sense of the others cannot be understood and till then all interpretation of present happening and forecast of man’s future are vain things. For its nature, power, event are that which will determine the next cycle of our humanity.” (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">210</span>-<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">11</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
