<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_1_(withoutred)_-_Finalforpress-191</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_1_-withoutred-_-_Finalforpress-191" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-200" class="SubHead1">Yajna – the Sacrifice</h2>
			<p class="body-text"><a id="_idTextAnchor002"></a>“(<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">10</span>) A symbolic system of external <a id="_idIndexMarker976"></a><span class="Index-Entry">sacrifice</span> in which every movement is carefully designed &amp; coordinated to signify the subjective facts of the internal <a id="_idIndexMarker977"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Yajna</span>, aids the spiritual aspirant by moulding his material sheath into harmony with his internal life &amp; by mastering his external surroundings so that there too the conditions &amp; forces may be all favourable to his growth.</p>
			<p class="body-text"><a id="_idTextAnchor003"></a>(<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">11</span>) The Yajna has two parts, <a id="_idIndexMarker978"></a><span class="Index-Entry">mantra</span> &amp; <a id="_idIndexMarker979"></a><span class="Index-Entry">tantra</span> – subjective &amp; objective; in the outer sacrifice the mantra is the Vedic hymn and the tantra the oblation; in the inner the mantra is the meditation or the sacred formula, the tantra the putting forth of the power generated by mantra to bring about some successful spiritual, intellectual, vital or mental activity of which the gods have their share.</p>
			<p class="body-text"><a id="_idTextAnchor004"></a>(<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">12</span>) The mantra consists of gayatra, brahma and arka, the formulation of thought into rhythmic speech to bring about a spiritual force or result, the filling of the soul (brahma) with the idea &amp; name of the god of the mantra, the use of the mantra for effectuation of the external object or the activity desired.</p>
			<p class="body-text"><a id="_idTextAnchor005"></a>(<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">13</span>) The tantra is composed of neshtra, savanam, potra &amp; hotra, the intensifying of the vasu or material (internal or external) so as to prepare it for activity, the production of it in a usable form, the purification of it from all defects &amp; the offering of it to the god or for action.</p>
			<p class="body-text"><a id="_idTextAnchor006"></a>(<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">14</span>) The Veda proper is <a id="_idIndexMarker980"></a><span class="Index-Entry">karmakanda</span>, not <a id="_idIndexMarker981"></a><span class="Index-Entry">jnanakanda</span>; its aim is not moksha, but divine fulfilment in this life &amp; the next. Therefore the Vedic Rishis accepted plenty &amp; fullness of physical, vital &amp; mental being, power &amp; joy as the pratistha or foundation of immortality &amp; did not reject it as an obstacle to salvation.<span id="footnote-029-backlink"><a class="_idFootnoteLink _idGenColorInherit" href="CWSA_1_(withoutred)_-_Finalforpress-191.xhtml#footnote-029">[1]</a></span></p>
			<p class="body-text"><a id="_idTextAnchor007"></a>(<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">15</span>) The world being one in all its parts every being in it contains the universe in himself. Especially do the great gods contain all the others &amp; their activities in themselves, so that Agni, Varuna, Indra, all of them are in reality one sole-existent deity in many forms. Man too is He, but he has to fulfil himself here as man, yet divine (that being his vrata &amp; dharma) through the puissant means provided for him [by] the Veda.” (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">35</span>-<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">36</span>)</p>
			<hr class="HorizontalRule-1" />
			<div class="_idFootnotes">
				<div id="footnote-029" class="_idFootnote" epub:type="footnote">
					<p class="footnote"><a class="_idFootnoteAnchor _idGenColorInherit" href="CWSA_1_(withoutred)_-_Finalforpress-191.xhtml#footnote-029-backlink">[1]</a> It is supposed that in the Kaliyuga this is no longer possible, or possible only by direct self-surrender to the Supreme Deity. Therefore the complexity of the Vedic system has been removed from the domain of our religious practice and in its place there has been increasingly substituted the worship of the Supreme Deity through Love.</p>
				</div>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
