<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_1_(withoutred)_-_Finalforpress-122</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_1_-withoutred-_-_Finalforpress-122" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-128" class="SubHead1">The <a id="_idIndexMarker564"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Evolutionary Scale</span></h2>
			<p class="body-text">“We shall see how the thought of God works itself out in Life. The material world is first formed with the Sun as centre, the Sun [ ]<span id="footnote-002-backlink"><a class="_idFootnoteLink _idGenColorInherit" href="CWSA_1_(withoutred)_-_Finalforpress-122.xhtml#footnote-002">[3]</a></span> being itself only a subordinate star of the great Agni, Mahavishnu, in whom is centred the <a id="_idIndexMarker565"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Bhu</span>. <a id="_idIndexMarker566"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Mahavishnu</span> is the <a id="_idIndexMarker567"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Virat Purusha</span> who as Agni pours Himself out into the forms of sun and star. He is Agni Twashtá, Visvakarman, he is also <a id="_idIndexMarker568"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Prajápati</span> and <a id="_idIndexMarker569"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Matariswan</span>. These are the three primal Purushas of the earth life, – Agni Twashta, Prajápati &amp; Matariswan, all of them soul bodies of Mahavishnu. Agni Twashta having made the Sun out of the Apas or waters of being, Prajapati as <a id="_idIndexMarker570"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Surya Savitri</span> enters into the Sun and takes possession of it. He multiplies himself in the Suris or Solar Gods who are the souls of the flames of Surya, the Purushas of the <a id="_idIndexMarker571"></a><span class="Index-Entry">female solar energies</span>. Then he creates out of this solar body of Vishnu the planets each of which successively becomes the <a id="_idIndexMarker572"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Bhumi</span> or place of manifestation for <a id="_idIndexMarker573"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Manu</span>, the mental being, who is the nodus of manifest life-existence and the link between the life and the spirit. The present earth in its turn appears as the scene of life, Mars being its last theatre. In the Bhumi Agni Twashta is again the first principle, Matariswan the second, finally, Prajapati appears in the form of the four Manus, chatváro manavah. Not in the physical world at first, but in the mental world which stands behind the earth-life; for earth has seven planes of being, the material of which the scenes and events are alone normally visible to the material senses, the vital of which man’s <a id="_idIndexMarker574"></a><span class="Index-Entry">pranakosha</span> is built and to which it is responsive, the mental to which his <a id="_idIndexMarker575"></a><span class="Index-Entry">manahkosha</span> is attached, the ideal governing his <a id="_idIndexMarker576"></a><span class="Index-Entry">vijnanakosha</span>, the beatific which supports his <a id="_idIndexMarker577"></a><span class="Index-Entry">anandakosha</span>, &amp; the dynamic and essential to which he has not yet developed corresponding koshas, but only unformed nimbuses of concrete being. All the gods throw out their <a id="_idIndexMarker578"></a><span class="Index-Entry">linga-rupas</span> into these worlds of earth and through them carry on her affairs; for these lingas repeat there in the proper terms of life upon earth the conscious movements of the gods in their higher existences in the worlds above Bhu. The Manus manifested in the <a id="_idIndexMarker579"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Manoloka</span> of Bhu bring pressure to bear upon the earth for the manifestation of life and mind. Prajapati as <a id="_idIndexMarker580"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Rudra</span> then begins to form life upon earth, first in vegetable, then in animal forms. Man already exists but as a god or demigod in <a id="_idIndexMarker581"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Bhuvarloka</span> of Bhu, not as a man upon earth. There he is <a id="_idIndexMarker582"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Deva</span>, <a id="_idIndexMarker583"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Asura</span>, Rakshasa, <a id="_idIndexMarker584"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Pramatha</span>, Pisacha, Pashu or as Deva he is either <a id="_idIndexMarker585"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Gandharva</span>[,] <a id="_idIndexMarker586"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Yaksha</span>, <a id="_idIndexMarker587"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Vidyadhara</span> or any of the Karmadevas. For Man is a son of the Manu and is assigned his place in Div &amp; Pradiv, in Heaven &amp; in the Swargabhumis. Thence he descends to earth and thither from earth he returns. All that will be explained afterwards. When the human body is ready, then he descends upon earth and occupies it. He is not a native of earth, nor does he evolve out of the animal. His manifestation in animal form is always a partial incarnation, as will be seen hereafter.</p>
			<p class="body-text">The animal proper is a lower type. Certain devas of the manasic plane in the Bhuvarloka descend in the higher type of animal. They are not mental beings proper, but only half-mental vital beings. They live in packs, tribes etc with a communal existence. They are individual souls, but the individuality is less vigorous than the type soul. If they were not individual, they would not be able to incarnate in individual forms. The body is only the physical type of the soul. The soul, if it were only a communal soul, would manifest in some complex body of which the conglomeration of the different parts would be the sole unity; say, a life like that of the human brain. The animal develops the tribe life, the pack or clan life, the family life. He develops chitta, manas, the rudiments of reason. Then only man appears.</p>
			<p class="body-text">How does he appear? <a id="_idIndexMarker588"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Prajapati</span> manifests as <a id="_idIndexMarker589"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Vishnu Upendra</span> incarnate in the animal or Pashu in whom the four Manus have already manifested themselves, and the first human creature who appears is, in this <a id="_idIndexMarker590"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Kalpa</span>, the <a id="_idIndexMarker591"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Vanara</span>, not the animal Ape, but man with the Ape nature. His <a id="_idIndexMarker592"></a><span class="Index-Entry">satya yuga</span> is the first Paradise, for man begins with the Satya Yuga, begins with a perfected type, not a rudimentary type. The animal forms a perfect type for the human Pashu and then only a Manuputra or Manu, a human, a true mental soul, enters into existence upon earth, with the full blaze of a perfect animal-human mentality in the animal form.</p>
			<p class="body-text">These are man’s beginnings. He rises by the descent of ever higher types of Manu from the <a id="_idIndexMarker593"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Bhuvarloka</span>, – first he is Pashu, then <a id="_idIndexMarker594"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Pishacha</span>, then <a id="_idIndexMarker595"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Pramatha</span>, then <a id="_idIndexMarker596"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Rakshasa</span>, then Asura, then Deva, then Siddha. So he ascends the ladder of his own being towards the Sat Purusha.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Manu, the first Prajapati, is a part of <a id="_idIndexMarker597"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Mahavishnu</span> Himself descended into the mental plane in order to conduct the destinies of the human race. He is different from the four Manus who are more than Prajapatis, they being the four Type-Souls from whom all human Purushas are born; they are Manus only for the purpose of humanity &amp; in themselves are beyond this manifest universe &amp; dwell for ever in the being of the Para Purushas. They are not true Manomaya Purushas. But Manu Prajapati is a true manomaya Purusha. He by mental generation begets on his female Energies men in the mental &amp; vital planes above earth, whence they descend into the material or rather the terrestrial body. On earth Manu incarnates fourteen times in each <a id="_idIndexMarker598"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Kalpa</span> &amp; each of these fourteen incarnations is called a Manu. These fourteen Manus govern human destinies during the hundred <a id="_idIndexMarker599"></a><span class="Index-Entry">chaturyugas</span> of the Prati-Kalpa, each in turn taking charge of a particular stage of the human advance. While that stage lasts he directs it both from the mental world and by repeated incarnations upon earth. When Manu Prajapati wishes to incarnate in a fresh form, he has a mental body prepared for him by evolution of births by a human vibhuti, Suratha or another &amp; takes possession of it at the beginning of his manvantara. Each manvantara is composed of a varying number of chaturyugas according to the importance &amp; difficulty of the stage with which it is concerned. Once at least in each chaturyuga the Manu of the Manvantara incarnates as a man upon earth, but this never happens in the Kali Yuga. The seventh &amp; eighth Manus are the most important in each Prati Kalpa &amp; have the longest reigns, for in their <a id="_idIndexMarker600"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Manvantaras</span> the critical change is finally made from the type which was completed in the last Prati Kalpa to the type which is to be perfected in the present Kalpa. For each of the ten PratiKalpas has its type. Man in the ten Prati-Kalpas progresses through the ten types which have been fixed for his evolution in the Kalpa. In this Kalpa the types, dashagu, are the ten forms of consciousness, called the <a id="_idIndexMarker601"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Pashu</span>, <a id="_idIndexMarker602"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Vanara</span>, <a id="_idIndexMarker603"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Pishacha</span>, <a id="_idIndexMarker604"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Pramatha</span>, <a id="_idIndexMarker605"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Rakshasa</span>, <a id="_idIndexMarker606"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Asura</span>, Deva, Sadhyadeva, Siddhadeva and the <a id="_idIndexMarker607"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Satyadeva</span>. The last three are known by other names which need not be written at present. The Pashu is mind concentrated entirely on the annam, the Vanara mind concentrated on the Prana, the Pishacha mind concentrated on the senses &amp; the knowledge part of the chitta, the Pramatha mind concentrated on the heart &amp; the emotional &amp; aesthetic part of the chitta, the Rakshasa is mind concentrated on the thinking manas proper &amp; taking up all the others into the manas itself; the Asura is mind concentrated on the buddhi &amp; in the Asura Rakshasa making it serve the manas &amp; chitta; the Deva is mind concentrated in vijnanam, exceeding itself, but in the Asura Deva or Devasura it makes the vijnana serve the buddhi. The others raise mind successively to the Ananda, Tapas &amp; Sat &amp; are, respectively, the supreme Rakshasa, the supreme Asura, the supreme Deva. We have here the complete scale by which Mind ascends its own ladder from Matter to pure Being evolved by Man in the various types of which each of the ten principles is in its turn capable. To take the joy of these various types in their multifold play is the object of the Supreme Purusha in the human Lila.</p>
			<p class="body-text">[II]</p>
			<p class="body-text">A series of images and a number of intimations have been given yesterday in the chitra-drishti to illustrate the history of the first two Manwantaras &amp; the vicissitudes through which the human idea has gone in the course of these unnumbered ages. It is not at all surprising that there should be no relics of those vicissitudes in the strata of the present earth; for the present earth is not the soil of the planet as it was in the earliest Manwantaras. The detritions, the upheavals, the convulsions, the changes that it has undergone cannot be estimated by the imaginative &amp; summary methods of the modern geologists, – men who think themselves advanced &amp; masters of knowledge, but are only infants &amp; babblers in their own sciences.” (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">1323</span>-<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">27</span>)</p>
			<hr class="HorizontalRule-1" />
			<div class="_idFootnotes">
				<div id="footnote-002" class="_idFootnote" epub:type="footnote">
					<p class="footnote"><a class="_idFootnoteAnchor _idGenColorInherit" href="CWSA_1_(withoutred)_-_Finalforpress-122.xhtml#footnote-002-backlink">[3]</a> MS itself</p>
				</div>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
