<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_1_(withoutred)_-_Finalforpress-208</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_1_-withoutred-_-_Finalforpress-208" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-219" class="SubHead1">Vijnana’s Action in Human Mind</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“<a id="_idIndexMarker1060"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Vijnana</span>, true ideation, called ritam, truth or vedas, knowledge in the Vedas, acts in human mind by four separate functions; revelation, termed drishti, sight; <a id="_idIndexMarker1061"></a><span class="Index-Entry">inspiration</span> termed sruti, hearing; and the two faculties of <a id="_idIndexMarker1062"></a><span class="Index-Entry">discernment</span>, smriti, memory, which are <a id="_idIndexMarker1063"></a><span class="Index-Entry">intuition</span>, termed ketu, and <a id="_idIndexMarker1064"></a><span class="Index-Entry">discrimination</span>, termed daksha, division, or viveka, separation. By drishti we see ourselves the truth face to face, in its own form, nature or self-existence; by sruti we hear the name, sound or word by which the truth is expressed &amp; immediately suggested to the knowledge; by ketu we distinguish a truth presented to us behind a veil whether of result or process, as Newton discovered the law of gravitation hidden behind the fall of the apple; by viveka we distinguish between various truths and are able to put them in their right place, order and relation to each other, or, if presented with mingled truth &amp; error, separate the truth from the falsehood. Agni <a id="_idIndexMarker1065"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Jatavedas</span> is termed in the Veda vivichi, he who has the viveka, who separates truth from falsehood; but this is only a special action of the fourth ideal faculty &amp; in its wider scope, it is daksha, that which divides &amp; rightly distributes truth in its multiform aspects. The ensemble of the four faculties is Vedas or divine knowledge. When man is rising out of the limited &amp; error-besieged mental principle, the faculty most useful to him, most indispensable is daksha or viveka. Drishti of Vijnana transmuted into terms of mind has become observation, sruti appears as imagination, intuition as intelligent perception, viveka as reasoning &amp; intellectual judgment and all of these are liable to the constant touch of error. Human buddhi, intellect, is a distorted shadow of the true ideative faculties. As we return from these shadows to their ideal substance viveka or daksha must be our constant companion; for viveka alone can get rid of the habit of mental error, prevent observation being replaced by false illumination, imagination by false inspiration, intelligence by false intuition, judgment &amp; reason by false discernment. The first sign of human advance out of the anritam of mind to the ritam of the ideal faculty is the growing action of a luminous right discernment which fixes instantly on the truth, feels instantly the presence of error. The fullness, the manhaná of this viveka is the foundation &amp; safeguard of Ritam or Vedas. The first great movement of Agni Jatavedas is to transform by the divine will in mental activity his lower smoke-covered activity into the bright clearness &amp; fullness of the ideal discernment.” (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">717</span>-<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">18</span>)</p>
			<p class="body-text">“Agni has already established the fullness of the viveka. He has now to increase in Gaya &amp; his fellow worshippers the light of knowledge &amp; the full growth of all the powers of the vijnána; he has to help in man the gods of revelation, inspiration &amp; intuition as well as of viveka. How is this to be done? By the mantras of the hymn of praise, stomebhih.” (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">720</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
