<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_1_(withoutred)_-_Finalforpress-218</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_1_-withoutred-_-_Finalforpress-218" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-230" class="SubHead1">Why the Ancient Hindus Insisted on the Veda as the Supreme Authority</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“It has been well said that to deny Veda by hetuvada, divine revelation by intellectual rationality, is, in the end, to become a pashanda, – a word which has now acquired only the significance of an abusive epithet but meant originally and etymologically a materialist, one who denies his higher self in order to enthrone &amp; worship the brute matter in which he is cased. A harmony is needed in which the higher shall illumine the lower, the lower recognise &amp; rise to the higher. The ancient Hindus, therefore, insisted on Veda as the supreme authority, allowing Philosophy, Science &amp; Religion only as subordinate helps to knowledge, because they perceived the danger of giving too unlicensed a freedom to these great but inferior powers. Religion, putting Veda away into a sacred oblivion, follows the impulses of the undisciplined heart, not purified, but full of the vital impulses, chittam pranair otam, and becomes spasmodic, ignorant, narrow, obscurantist, sectarian, cruel, violent. Philosophy acknowledging Veda in theory but relying instead on her own intellectual self-sufficiency, ends by living in words, a thing of vain disputations &amp; exultant logic-splitting, abstract, unpractical and visionary. Science, denying Veda altogether, arrogant &amp; bigoted in her own conceit, makes man a materialist, a pashanda. For all her analytical knowledge she knows not that that in man which believes only in matter is the beast in him, – the beast so long &amp; with such difficulty subdued &amp; disciplined by Philosophy, Religion &amp; Veda; she keeps telling him, “Thou, O brute body &amp; nerve system, art Brahman,” Annam vai Brahma, Prano vai Brahma, until his whole nature begins to believe it. One day, while she yet reigns, he is sure to rise, – the egoistic heartless lust of power &amp; pleasure in man, – and demand that she shall be his servant with her knowledge, her sophistries, her organisation, her appliances, shall justify to him his selfishness, lusts &amp; cruel impulses and arm them with engines of irresistible potency. Already the shadow of this terrible revival is cast upon the world; already <a id="_idIndexMarker1088"></a>Science is bowing her head to this tremendous demand. What the Hindus foresaw and dreaded and strove to organise their society against it, erecting barrier upon artificial barrier as their own knowledge &amp; grasp upon Veda diminished, is now growing actual and imminent. The way to avoid it is not to deny the truth of Science, but to complete, correct and illuminate it. For the Veda also says with Science, Annam vai Brahma, Prano vai Brahma; it acknowledges the animal, the Pashu in man &amp; God as the Master of the Animal, the Pashupati; but by completing the knowledge and putting it in its right relations, it completes him also &amp; liberates him, lifts the Pashu to the Pashupati and enables him to satisfy himself divinely by enjoying even in matter the supramaterial and replacing egoistic and selfish power by an universal mastery &amp; helpfulness and egoistic &amp; unsatisfying pleasures by a bliss in which he can become one with his fellows, a bliss divine &amp; universal.” (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">347</span>-<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">48</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
