<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_1_(withoutred)_-_Finalforpress-220</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_1_-withoutred-_-_Finalforpress-220" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-232" class="SubHead1">The <a id="_idIndexMarker1090"></a>Titans and <a id="_idIndexMarker1091"></a>Asuras of the Veda</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“The Titans or Asuras of the Veda are souls of mere undisciplined might. They are those who found themselves not on light &amp; calm but on asu, the vital force &amp; might which is the basis of all energetic &amp; impetuous feeling &amp; action. The self-willed ones, who from temperamental passion wreck themselves by the furious pursuit in desire of a false object or from intellectual passion wreck themselves by the blind pursuit in belief of a false idea, they follow a path because it is their own from Titanical attachment, from an immense though possibly lofty egoism. Mole ruit sua. They fall by their own mass, they collapse by excess of greatness. They need not be ignoble souls, but may even seem sometimes more noble than the gods &amp; their victorious legions. When they hack &amp; hew at the god within them, it may be in tremendous devotion to a principle; when they subdue, cloud &amp; torture themselves till they stumble forward into misery &amp; night, till they become demoniac in nature, it may be in furious &amp; hungry insistence on a great aspiration. They may be grandiosely mighty like Hiranyakashipu, ostentatiously largehearted like Bali, fiercely self-righteous like the younger Prahlada. But they fall whether great or petty, noble or ignoble &amp; in their fall they are thrust down by Vishnu to Patala, to the worlds of delusion &amp; shadow, or of impenetrable gloom, because they have used the heart or intellect to serve passion &amp; ignorance, enslaved the spiritual to the material &amp; vital elements &amp; subordinated the man in them to the Naga, the serpent. The Naga is the symbol of the mysterious earthbound force in man. Wisest he of the beasts of the field, but still a beast of the field, not the winged Garuda revered to be the upbearer of divinity who opens his vans to the sunlight and soars to the highest seat of Vishnu.” (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">386</span>-<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">87</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
