<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_1_(withoutred)_-_Finalforpress-215</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_1_-withoutred-_-_Finalforpress-215" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-227" class="SubHead1">The Place of the <a id="_idIndexMarker1080"></a>Six Darshanas and the Evolution of Indian Spiritual Tradition</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“Our forefathers who discovered or received <a id="_idIndexMarker1081"></a>Vedic truth, did not arrive at it either by intellectual speculation or by logical reasoning. They attained it by actual &amp; tangible experience in the spirit, – by spiritual &amp; psychological observation, as we may say, &amp; what they thus experienced, they understood by the instrumentality of the intuitive reason. But a time came when men felt an imperative need to give an account to themselves &amp; to others of this supreme &amp; immemorial Vedic truth in the terms of logic, in the language of intellectual ratiocination. For the maintenance of the intuitive reason as the ordinary instrument of knowledge demands as its basis an iron moral &amp; intellectual discipline, a colossal disinterestedness of thinking, – otherwise the imagination and the wishes pollute the purity of its action, replace, dethrone it and wear flamboyantly its name &amp; mask; Vedic knowledge begins to be lost &amp; the practice of life &amp; symbol based upon it are soon replaced by formalised action &amp; unintelligent rite &amp; ceremony. <a id="_idIndexMarker1082"></a>Without tapasya there can be no Veda. This was the course that the stream of thought followed among us, according to the sense of our Indian tradition. The capacity for tapasya belongs to the Golden Age of man’s fresh virility; it fades as humanity ages &amp; the cycle takes its way towards the years that are of Iron, and with tapasya, the basis, divine knowledge, the superstructure, also collapses or dwindles. The place of truth is then taken by superstition, irrational error that takes its stand upon the place where truth lies buried builds its tawdry &amp; fantastic palace of pleasure upon those concealed &amp; consecrated foundations, &amp; even uses the ruins of old truth as stones for its irregular building. But such an usurpation can never endure. For, since the need of man’s being is truth &amp; light, the divine law, whose chief article it is that no just demand of the soul shall remain always unsatisfied, raises up Reason to clear away Superstition. Reason arrives as the Angel of the Lord, armed with her sword of doubt &amp; denial (for it is the nature of intellectual Reason that beyond truth of objective appearance she cannot confidently &amp; powerfully affirm anything, but must always remain with regard to fundamental truth agnostic and doubtful, her highest word of affirmation “probably”, her lowest “perhaps”), – comes &amp; cuts away whatever she can, often losing herself in a fury of negation, denying superstition indeed, but doubting &amp; denying also even Truth because it has been a foundation for superstition or formed with some of its stones part of the building. But at any rate she clears the field for sounder work; she makes tabula rasa for a more correct writing. The ancient <a id="_idIndexMarker1083"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Indian mind</span> felt instinctively – I do not say it realised or argued consciously – the necessity, as the one way to avoid such a reign of negation, of stating to the intellectual reason so much of Vedic truth as could still be grasped and justifying it logically. The <a id="_idIndexMarker1084"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Six Darshanas</span> were the result of this mighty labour. Buddhism, the inevitable rush of negation, came indeed but it was prevented from destroying spirituality as European negation destroyed it for a time in the eighteenth &amp; nineteenth centuries by the immense &amp; unshakeable hold the work of the philosophers had taken upon the Indian temperament. So firm was this grasp that even the great Masters of negation – for Brihaspati who affirmed matter was a child &amp; weakling in denial compared with the Buddhists, – could not wholly divest themselves of this characteristic Indian realisation that subjective experience is the basis of existence &amp; the objective only an outward term of that existence.” (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">308</span>-<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">10</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
