<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_1_(withoutred)_-_Finalforpress-140</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_1_-withoutred-_-_Finalforpress-140" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-147" class="SubHead1">The Absolute Parabrahman</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“God in His ultimate existence beyond all manifestation and all knowledge, is the Absolute <a id="_idIndexMarker808"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Parabrahman</span>; in relation to the world He is that which transcends all universal existence while regarding it or in turning away from it; He is that which contains and upholds the universe, He is that which becomes the universe and He is the universe &amp; everything which it contains. </p>
			<p class="body-text">He is also Absolute and Supreme Personality playing in the universe and as the universe; in the universe He appears to be its Soul &amp; Lord, as the universe He appears to be the motion or process of the Will of the Lord and to become all the subjective and objective results of the motion. All the states of the Brahman, the transcendent, the continent, the universal, the individual are informed &amp; sustained by the divine Personality. He is both the Existent &amp; the state of existence. We call the state of existence the Impersonal Brahman, the Existent the Personal Brahman. There is no difference between them except to the play of our consciousness; for every impersonal state depends upon a manifest or secret Personality and can reveal the Personality which it holds and veils and every Personality attaches to itself and can plunge itself into an impersonal existence. This they can do because Personality &amp; Impersonality are merely different states of self-consciousness in one Absolute Being. </p>
			<p class="body-text">Philosophies &amp; religions dispute about the priority of different aspects of God &amp; different Yogins, Rishis &amp; Saints have preferred this or that philosophy or religion. Our business is not to dispute about any of them, but to realise &amp; become all of them, not to follow after any aspect to the exclusion of the rest, but to embrace God in all His aspects and beyond aspect. </p>
			<p class="body-text">God descending into world in various forms has consummated on this earth the mental and bodily form which we call humanity. </p>
			<p class="body-text">He has manifested in the world through the play of all governing Soul with its own formative Will or Shakti a rhythm of existence of which Matter is the lowest term and pure being the highest. Mind &amp; Life stand upon Matter (<a id="_idIndexMarker809"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Manas</span> &amp; Prana on Annam) and make the lower half of world-existence (<a id="_idIndexMarker810"></a><span class="Index-Entry">aparardha</span>); pure consciousness and pure bliss proceed out of pure Being (Chit and Ananda out of Sat) and make the upper half of world-existence. Pure idea (vijnana) stands as the link between the two. These seven principles or terms of existence are the basis of the <a id="_idIndexMarker811"></a>sevenfold world of the Puranas (Satyaloka, Tapas, Jana, Mahar, <a id="_idIndexMarker812"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Swar</span>, <a id="_idIndexMarker813"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Bhuvar</span> &amp; <a id="_idIndexMarker814"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Bhur</span>).” (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">98</span>-<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">100</span>) </p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
