<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_1_(withoutred)_-_Finalforpress-209</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_1_-withoutred-_-_Finalforpress-209" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-220" class="SubHead1">The Word and the <a id="_idIndexMarker1066"></a>Process of Creation</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“The importance &amp; effectiveness, psychological, spiritual, even physical, of the Word, Vachas, Gih, Uktha, may almost be described as the fundamental thought of the Vedic seers, and this initial psychic perception of our forefathers has dominated Indian religious thought &amp; discipline ever since. The name of God, the mantra, is still the keystone of all Indian yoga. We shall not realise the full bearing &amp; rationale of this great Vedic conception unless we first impress on our minds the <a id="_idIndexMarker1067"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Vedic idea</span> of existence &amp; creation, for <a id="_idIndexMarker1068"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Vak</span>, the Word, is in that idea the effective agent of creation. All created existence is in the Vedic philosophy a formation by force of consciousness, Chit-shakti, not, as modern thought supposes it to be, a formation by Force of unconscious inanimate Being. Creation itself is only a manifestation, phenomenon or appearing in form, vayas, vayunam, víti, [of] that which is already existent as consciousness, but latent as form in universal Being. It is srishti, a loosing forth, vachas, vyachas or shasti, an expressing or bringing out, not a creation in the modern sense, not a new manufacture of that which never before had any sort of existence. Sat or Being in the universe contains all forms as things in themselves in its Chit or self-consciousness, but for all cosmic purposes avyakta, unexpressed, undefined. To define it is first necessary that the general undifferentiated self-consciousness should dwell by particular concentration of consciousness, by Tapas or Force of self-knowledge, on the thing in itself latent in undifferentiated Cosmic Being. This self-dwelling of Tapas is, first, an act of seeing, íkshanam, drishti. “The Being saw, Let me bring forth worlds”, as the Aitareya Upanishad expresses the original Will to create. But a second agent is also needed, Ananda or delight of creation &amp; in the thing created, for without this creative Delight in conscious things nothing could come into existence or once being created remain in existence. “Who could exist or live” asks the Taittiriya Upanishad “if there were not this all-pervading &amp; all-supporting ethereal atmosphere of the divine Bliss around it?” – yad esha ákásha ánando na syát. Therefore as Tapas or Will is the working principle of cosmic Consciousness, (therefore the divine world in which infinite Consciousness is the basic factor is called by the Puranic writers, Tapoloka), so Jana, Birth or Joy of Procreation is the working principle of cosmic Bliss, (therefore the divine world in which infinite Bliss is the basic factor is called by the Puranic writers, Janaloka). But even so the agents are not sufficient; for Being, Consciousness, Bliss are universal &amp; infinite in nature, indivisible &amp; undividing realities. [There] is a particular faculty of Consciousness, Vijnana, which brings in the element of differentiation. Vijnana, pure Idea, is that which perceives the thing itself as thing in itself, as a whole &amp; in its parts. It introduces the element of Nama, name. The Vedic word Nama connotes definition, distribution &amp; law, (cf from nam, Greek nomos, law, nemo, to distribute, Latin numerus, number) &amp; is, in its nature, defining idea. The Nama, the name of a thing, the defining idea about it, is both its nomen &amp; numen, &amp; carries in itself the swabhava of the thing, its nature or self-being and prakriti or natural working; as soon as thing in itself gets its náma, it gets also its swáhá &amp; swadhá – swáhá, self-luminous self-existence manifested in self-force &amp; swadhá, self-fixity in that self-being; &amp; these two, the self-force &amp; the self-fixity, produce naturally &amp; inevitably all the workings of the thing-in-itself, its vratáni, by the guna or gana, quality or number (ratio) of the nature, the swadhá. The Nature works out by three processes, Manas, the measuring or limiting of thing in itself in consciousness by the number or ratio, the gana, Prana (Ashwa, the Horse) the energy of the swáhá, movement of consciousness accommodating itself to the limitations of the Idea &amp; confining itself to an action appropriate to the single form of the Idea which has been separated by distributing Manas &amp; numbering Ratio, and Annam, existence in form of substance created by the limiting Mind &amp; the self-confining energy of the Prana. This form of substance presents itself to the human mind as Matter; cosmic energy of being working in form of substance presents itself to us most strikingly in the phenomenon of animate Life but is also present in what we see as inanimate forms; Manas working through the nervous Life-energies &amp; their organs, the senses, presents itself to us as human &amp; animal Mind, but is a constant force by other workings &amp; other instruments even in lifeless forms which have not organised nervous energies. These seven principles constitute the world, &amp; are known in Veda as the ápas or sapta sindhavah, the waters of creative being, the seven elements of one ocean, the sapta dhenavah or sapta gávah, the seven fostering forms of divine consciousness and each of them forms for itself a separate world in which it predominates &amp; is the governing principle of consciousness &amp; existence but to which it necessarily admits its six sisters. These seven worlds are the sapta dhámáni or padáni, seven established places or seats of being, the seven footholds or goals of existence, with the sapta ratnáni, the seven forms of [delight]; five of them give entrance to the human soul in its present workings and are the pancha janáh or pancha kshitayah, five births or five inhabitable worlds &amp; their peoples.</p>
			<p class="body-text"><a id="_idIndexMarker1069"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Consciousness</span> is the base of all world existence, but consciousness develops itself in two forms, manifestion &amp; non-manifestation, Dawn &amp; Night, or from our point of view, Knowledge &amp; Ignorance, Chittam &amp; Achittam, Vidya &amp; Avidya, consciousness illumined in the form it has taken as in the seer, consciousness dark &amp; involved in the form it has taken as in the clod &amp; less rigidly in the tree. For it is evident that in the highest principles of Sat, Chit, Ananda, there is universal knowledge, unlimited, inherent in the self-luminous unity of the Cosmic Being; even in Vijnana the element of limitation or bheda has not really entered, for differentiation by Vijnana exists in the cosmic sense of oneness as a play of oneness &amp; is not a real difference; the knowledge of the many is illumined always by the knowledge of the one. The Gods of Sat, Tapas &amp; Jana know themselves as one, Agni there is Varuna &amp; Varuna is Agni; even in Mahas or Brihat, the uru loka, the wide &amp; vast world, the world of Vijnana, the devas know themselves as one even in their multitude. There, however, the first possibility of limitation in consciousness is adumbrated. But it is not till Manas gets full play that limitation sets in, but so long as Manas is pure rishimedhá, not separated from Vijnana, [the] movement from [.................................................................] Therefore in Swar, the world of pure Mind [...........................................................] the stress is not yet a bondage. There is a limited working of being, knowledge &amp; power, which may ignore for the time being the wider being, knowledge &amp; action &amp; thus generate ignorance, but is not fatally ignorant of it &amp; is not therefore bound by its self-chosen ignorance. The gods know themselves as one, as Purushas of the universal Deva even when they act as if they were entirely different personalities. In this world, therefore, there is no real birth &amp; death, no real day &amp; night, but only the taking &amp; putting off [of] forms, the bringing forward &amp; the putting back of Light from the frontal outward action of the consciousness. In Bhuvar, the worlds of Prana, the conscious energy put out seems to be really absorbed in her outward workings only, in the energy itself, in the form of her own works &amp; to forget her own more universal reality; a veil falls between manas &amp; vijnána, the veil of Achitti or ignorance. In Bhu, the world of Matter, this movement is complete. Consciousness is involved in its forms &amp; has to be rescued out of it by beings who bring conscious life &amp; mind into the mechanism of its formal energies &amp; the inertia of its substantial forms. Man is the nodus, the agent &amp; instrument of the gods for the full recovery of Consciousness in material Energy, universal being in particular Form. Man, the mental being in Bhu, shares with the Gods the appellation, Nri, the Purusha; he too is a guiding Soul of consciousness &amp; not the mere gana, formal executive energy &amp; mechanical ratio of things which is the outward aspect of Nature.” (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">720</span>-<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">24</span>)</p>
		</div>
		<div class="_idGenObjectLayout-1">
			<div id="_idContainer029">
			</div>
		</div>
		<div id="_idContainer030">
			<h1 id="_idParaDest-221" class="Headline">Volume 17<br />Isha Upanishad</h1>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
