<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_1_(withoutred)_-_Finalforpress-146</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_1_-withoutred-_-_Finalforpress-146" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-153" class="SubHead1">The <a id="_idIndexMarker825"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Divine Opposites</span></h2>
			<p class="body-text">“All this is Infinity grasped by the Finite and the Finite lived by the Infinite.</p>
			<p class="body-text">The finite is a transience or a recurrence in the infinite, therefore Infinity alone is utterly real. But since that Real casts always this shadow of itself and since it is by the finite that its reality becomes conceivable, we must suppose that the phenomenon also is not a fiction.</p>
			<p class="body-text">The Infinite defines itself in the finite, the finite conceives itself in the Infinite. Each is necessary to the other’s complete joy of being.</p>
			<p class="body-text">The Infinite pauses always in the finite; the finite arrives always in the Infinite. This is the wheel that circles forever through Time and Eternity.</p>
			<p class="body-text">If there were nothing to be transcended, the Transcendent would be incomplete in its own conception.</p>
			<p class="body-text">What is the value of the Formless unless it has stooped to Form? And on the other hand what truth or value has any form except to represent as in a mask the Indefinable and Invisible?</p>
			<p class="body-text">From what background have all these numberless forms started out, if not from the termless profundities of the Incommensurable? He who has not lost his knowledge in the Unknowable, knows nothing. Even the world he studies so sapiently, cheats and laughs at him.</p>
			<p class="body-text">When we have entered into the <a id="_idIndexMarker826"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Unknowable</span>, then all this other knowledge becomes valid. When we have sacrificed all forms into the Formless, then all forms become at once negligible and infinitely precious.</p>
			<p class="body-text">For the rest, that is true of all things. What we have not renounced, has no worth. <a id="_idIndexMarker827"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Sacrifice</span> is the great revealer of values.</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">* * *</p>
			<p class="body-text">As all words come out of the Silence, so all forms come out of the Infinite.</p>
			<p class="body-text">When the word goes back into the silence is it extinct for ever or does it dwell in the eternal harmony? When a soul goes back to God is it blotted out from existence or does it know and enjoy that into which it enters?</p>
			<p class="body-text">Does universe ever end? Does it not exist eternally in God’s total idea of His own being?</p>
			<p class="body-text">Unless the Eternal is tired out by Time as by a load, unless God suffers loss of memory, how can universe cease from being?</p>
			<p class="body-text">Neither for soul nor universe is extinction the goal, but for one it is infinite self-possessing and for the other the endless pursuit of its own immutably mutable rhythms.</p>
			<p class="star-single-center">* * *</p>
			<p class="body-text">Existence, not annihilation is the whole aim and pursuit of existence.</p>
			<p class="body-text">If Nothing were the beginning Nothing also would be the end; but in that case Nothing also would be the middle.</p>
			<p class="body-text">If indiscriminable unity were the beginning it would also be the end. But then what middle term could there be except indiscriminable unity?</p>
			<p class="body-text">There is a logic in existence from which our Thought tries to escape by twisting and turning against its own ultimate necessity, as if a snake were to try to get away from itself by coiling round its own body. Let it cease coiling and go straight to the root of the whole matter, that there is no first nor last, no beginning nor ending, but only a representation of successions and dependences.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Succession and dependence are laws of perspective; they cannot be made a true measure of that which they represent.</p>
			<p class="body-text">Precisely because God is one, indefinable and beyond form, therefore He is capable of infinite definition and quality, realisation in numberless forms and the joy of endless self-multiplication. These two things go together and they cannot really be divided.” (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">143</span>-<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">145</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
