<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
	<head>
		<title>CWSA_1_(withoutred)_-_Finalforpress-226</title>
		<link href="css/idGeneratedStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="CWSA_1_-withoutred-_-_Finalforpress-226" lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div>
			<h2 id="_idParaDest-239" class="SubHead1">Four Necessary Functions of Mind – the Basis of All Conscious Action</h2>
			<p class="body-text">“<a id="_idIndexMarker1108"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Mind</span>, in fact, or active consciousness generally has four necessary functions which are indispensable to it wherever and however it may act and of which the Upanishads speak in the four terms, <a id="_idIndexMarker1109"></a><span class="Index-Entry">vijñ</span><span class="Index-Entry">ā</span><span class="Index-Entry">na</span>, <a id="_idIndexMarker1110"></a><span class="Index-Entry">prajñ</span><span class="Index-Entry">ā</span><span class="Index-Entry">na</span>, <a id="_idIndexMarker1111"></a><span class="Index-Entry">s</span><span class="Index-Entry">a</span><span class="Index-Entry">ṁ</span><span class="Index-Entry">jñ</span><span class="Index-Entry">ā</span><span class="Index-Entry">na</span> and <a id="_idIndexMarker1112"></a><span class="Index-Entry">ā</span><span class="Index-Entry">jñ</span><span class="Index-Entry">ā</span><span class="Index-Entry">na</span>. <a id="_idIndexMarker1113"></a><span class="Index-Entry">Vijñ</span><span class="Index-Entry">ā</span><span class="Index-Entry">na</span> is the original comprehensive consciousness which holds an image of things at once in its essence, its totality and its parts and properties; it is the original, spontaneous, true and complete view of it which belongs properly to the supermind and of which mind has only a shadow in the highest operations of the comprehensive intellect. Prajñāna is the consciousness which holds an image of things before it as an object with which it has to enter into relations and to possess by apprehension and a combined analytic and synthetic cognition. Saṁjñāna is the contact of consciousness with an image of things by which there is a sensible possession of it in its substance; if prajñāna can be described as the outgoing of apprehensive consciousness to possess its object in conscious energy, to know it, saṁjñāna can be described as the inbringing movement of apprehensive consciousness which draws the object placed before it back to itself so as to possess it in conscious substance, to feel it. Ājñāna is the operation by which consciousness dwells on an image of things so as to hold, govern and possess it in power. These four, therefore, are the basis of all conscious action.</p>
			<p class="body-text">As our human psychology is constituted, we begin with saṁjñāna, the sense of an object in its image; the apprehension of it in knowledge follows. Afterwards we try to arrive at the comprehension of it in knowledge and the possession of it in power. There are secret operations in us, in our subconscient and superconscient selves, which precede this action, but of these we are not aware in our surface being and therefore for us they do not exist. If we knew of them, our whole conscious functioning would be changed. As it is what happens is a rapid process by which we sense an image and have of it an apprehensive percept and concept, and a slower process of the intellect by which we try to comprehend and possess it. The former process is the natural action of the mind which has entirely developed in us; the latter is an acquired action, an action of the intellect and the intelligent will which represent in Mind an attempt of the mental being to do what can only be done with perfect spontaneity and mastery by something higher than Mind. The intellect and intelligent will form a bridge by which the mental being is trying to establish a conscious connection with the supramental and to prepare the embodied soul for the descent into it of a supramental action. Therefore the first process is comparatively easy, spontaneous, rapid, perfect; the second slow, laboured, imperfect. In proportion as the intellectual action becomes associated with and dominated by a rudimentary supramental action, – and it is this which constitutes the phenomenon of genius, – the second process also becomes more and more easy, spontaneous, rapid and perfect.</p>
			<p class="body-text">If we suppose a supreme consciousness, master of the world, which really conducts behind the veil all the operations the mental gods attribute to themselves, it will be obvious that that consciousness will be the entire Knower and Lord. The basis of its action or government of the world will be the perfect, original and all-possessing vijñāna and ājñāna. It will comprehend all things in its energy of conscious knowledge, control all things in its energy of conscious power. These energies will be the spontaneous inherent action of its conscious being creative and possessive of the forms of the universe. What part then will be left for the apprehensive consciousness and the sense? They will be not independent functions, but subordinate operations involved in the action of the comprehensive consciousness itself. In fact, all four there will be one rapid movement. If we had all these four acting in us with the unified rapidity with which the prajñāna and saṁjñāna act, we should then have in our notation of Time some inadequate image of the unity of the supreme action of the supreme energy.” (<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">51</span>-<span class="ref-num _idGenCharOverride-1">52</span>)</p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
